Al-Khwarizmi About Indian Numerals
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1.
Al-Khwarizmi said: Let us give praise to God, our ruler and defender, worthy of them, that they may render to him the debt, and multiply the praise by increasing; of the Indians by 9 letters, with which they expounded their universal number for the sake of lightness and abbreviation, so that this work would be made easier for those who wanted arithmetic, that is, the greatest number as well as the least, and whatever is in it from multiplication and division, also collection and dispersion, and so on.

2.
Al-Khwarizmi said: When I saw that they had set up 9 letters in their universal number, because of the arrangement they had set, I wanted to reveal something about the work that is done through them that would be easier for the learners, if God wills.
But if the Indians wanted this, and their intention in these 9 letters was a cause that was clear to me, God directed me to this.
If I believe that for another reason, beyond that which I have explained, they have done this through what I have explained, the same reason can be found most certainly and without any doubt.
It will gradually become clear to those who look and learn.

3.
They therefore made 9 letters, the figure of which is ...
There is also diversity among men in their figures: and this diversity is made in the figure of the fifth letter and the sixth, and also the seventh and eighth.
But this is no hindrance.
For there are notes that sign the number, and these are the figures in which that diversity is...
And I have already made it clear in the book of algebra and almucabalah, that is, of restoration and opposition, that every number is composed, and that every number is composed upon one.
Therefore one is found in the universal number; and this is what is said arithmetically in another book.
Because the root of every number is one, and it is outside the number.
It is the root of a number, therefore every number is found through it.
Indeed, it is outside number, therefore it is found by itself, that is, without any other number.
But the rest of the number cannot be found without one.
For when you say one thing, it does not need another number for its discovery.
But the rest of the number needs (sic) one: wherefore you cannot say two or three, unless it precedes one.
Number, then, is nothing else but a collection of units; and what we have said, you cannot say two or three, unless it precedes one: we did not say of the voice, that I may say so, but of the matter.
For not they may be two or three, if one is taken away.
Indeed, one can be without the second or third.
Therefore two are nothing else but the duplicity or twinning of one: and likewise three are nothing else but the triplication of the same unity: so understand the rest of the number.
Let us now return to the book.

4.
Al-Khwarizmi found, that everything that can be said from a number, and to be whatever exceeds one up to 9, that is, what is between 9 and one, that is, one is doubled and two are made; and the same one is tripled, and three are made, and so in the rest up to 9.
From there 10 are placed in the place of one, and 10 are doubled and tripled, just as it was done with one, and they become 20 from the doubling of hearts, from the tripling 30, and so on up to 90.
After this, 100 returns in the place of one, and there they are doubled and tripled, as happened with one and 10; and of them 200 and 300 are made, and the rest up to 900.
Again a thousand are put in the place of one; and by doubling and tripling, as we have said, 2 thousand are made of them, and 3, and the rest until an infinite number, according to this manner.
And I found that they worked from these places.
The first of which is the place of units, in which whatever is between one and 9 is doubled and tripled.
The second place of tens, in which whatever is from 10 to ninety is doubled and tripled.
The third place of hundreds, in which whatever is from 100 to 900 is doubled or tripled.
The fourth is the place of thousands, in which whatever is from a thousand to 9000 is doubled and tripled.
The fifth place is 10 in this way: whenever a number goes up, the place is added: the arrangement of the number will be thus: Every one that was in the higher (sic) place, will be in the lower one that is before the 10; that which was 10 in the lower, there will be one in the higher that precedes it; and there will be a beginning of places on the right hand of the writer: and this will be the first of them, and it is itself placed in units.
Now when 10 were spread out in the place of one, and they became a second place, and their figure was the figure of one, it was necessary for them to have the figure of tens, because it resembled the figure of one, that they might know by it that they were 10.
They therefore proposed to him one place, and placed in it a small circle in the similitude of the letter O, that by this they might know that the place of units was empty, and that there was no number in it beyond the small circle which we said occupied it: and it is shown that the number which is in the next place would be tens, and this would be the second place, which is the place of tens.
And they put after the circle in the aforesaid second place whatever they wanted from the number of tens that is between 10 and 90, and these are the figure of the tens: figure 10 is this ... Figure 20 ...
And similarly the figure 30 is thus, and thus up to 9: namely, the circle will be in the first place, and the character belonging to the number itself in the second place.
Now this must be known, that he who thus characterizes in the first place, one thing; in the second thus 10; in the third 100, and in the fourth 1.
And in the same way those who thus in the first place two; in the second thus 20, and in the third 200, and in the fourth 2, and so understand the rest.
But let us return to the book.

5.
After the place of tens, there follows (sic) the place of hundreds, in which whatever is from 100 to 900 is doubled and tripled; and its figure is like the figure of one in a third: the place being set to 100; and the figure of two hundred is like the figure of two placed in the third place thus 300: the figure of three hundred is also the figure of three placed in the third place thus 300, and so on up to ninety.
This is also followed by the place of thousands, in which whatever is from one thousand to 9 is likewise doubled and tripled; thousands: now three circles are placed in the fourth place before the character, to show that it is in the fourth place, just as it was placed in the second place of one, and in the third two, to show that there were a place of tens or hundreds: and this happens when it was not before the same number as another number in the same place.
But if there be with a number that is placed in these places, some number below it must be placed in that place that is due to it.
For example: if there is a number of those below 10, such as 11 or 12, then 2 are placed: namely, in the first place, where the circle was placed, one is placed, and in the second place, one is also placed which is thus 10.
In the same way, if there is a different number from those who are below it when it is 100, it is put in the place that is due to it.
Let us show that under a certain model, and let us say that the number is 325.
When we wished to place him in his places, we put him thus.
We began from the right hand of the writer, and placed in the first place 5; in the second, going towards the left part of the writer, 20, and in the third place 300, each number in its place, that is, units in the place of units, which is the first; and tens in the place of tens, which is the Second.
I see hundreds in the place of hundreds, which is a third; and this is the figure of 335: and likewise he writes in other places according to this order, that is, whenever a number is increased and a place increases, each kind of number is placed in its own place which is due to it.
But when they have been collected in some of the places of 10 or more, they are raised to a higher place, and for each 10 there is one in the higher place.
Again, if it is in the same place, to which the number reaches by ascending, another number is added above, and they are collected at the same time: and if they are in a group of 10 or more, let one be made of each 10, and it is added to the higher place, that is, if they were collected in the first place ten, let one of them be made, and be placed in the second place: and if there be a similar number in the same place, let it be joined to it; and if there be 10 there, let it be made of them, and be set up also for the third place.
For example.
If in the first place, which is the place of units, you have 10, make one of them, and put it in the second place.
In the first place place a circle, as we have said, so that it may be shown that there is a place.
If indeed there were 11, make one of the 10, and place it in the second place as above, and leave one in the first.
But if you find in the second place, where you put the very number that you made of 10, another number, join it with that.
And if there are 10 or more, make one of the 10, and again put it in the third place; and that which remains below 10 shall remain in its place.
But when we say more than 10, this refers to a large number.
For example.
If it be found in the second or third place, a large number, as if you find it in the third place, which is a place of hundreds, 9; and if there are 10 in the second place, make one of 10, and change it to the third place, where you join it with 9, and they become 10: make one of the 10 themselves, and change it into the fourth place, and there it will be a thousand.
If indeed you had found 20 in the second place, and made two of them, and added two over 9 in the third place, and they would become 11: you would again make one of 10, and change it when you came to the fourth place, where there would be a thousand, and one remains in the third place: and therefore he says 10 or more.
And this must be known, why when you change the number and put it in the second place, you must put it by its characters, that is, if there are 10, you put instead the character which means one in the first place; and if there are 20, put for them the character which signifies two in the first place, and so understand the rest.
If it remains in the same place, of which you changed the number, something from the number, let it go in the same way by its characters, i.e. if it remains one or two, you let it there by the character which signifies the same number, that is, if it remains one, you describe there the character of one; and if two remain, you shall describe there the character of the two, and so on.
Each figure will signify a set according to what the place was, that is, in the first place it will signify unities; in the second decade (sic); in the third hundred and so on, as has been said above.

6.
But if there be a great number, and you wish to know how many there are, and how many places there are in it, so that you write when in a book, or speak about it, know that there is no place in any place more than 9, nor less than one, unless it is a circle which is nothing.
When you want to know this, count the places, beginning with the first one on the right-hand side, and this will be the place of units.
The rest of the places will be described by their succession towards the left side of the writer.
Of which the second is the place of tens, and the third of hundreds, and the fourth of thousands, and the fifth of 10 thousands.
The sixth place will be 100 miles, and the seventh a thousand miles.
Again, it will be 10 thousand thousand, and the ninth 100 thousand thousand, and the tenth thousand thousand thousand three times, and the eleventh 10 thousand thousand thousand three times, and the twelfth 100 thousand thousand thousand three times, and 13 thousand thousand thousand thousand four times; and likewise in every place from the places you add numbers in your expression.
Because on top of the three places, that is, tens and hundreds, and the remainder of the thousand was one, there will be 10 thousand of the same number of thousands that you mentioned in the words.
If indeed two remain, there will be 100 thousand out of the thousands; and this is the figure of the same...

7.
In two letters, when you collect them according to what we have said about these characters, the number of thousands of these characters will be one thousand thousand thousand thousand five times according to the number of characters that are under them; or one hundred thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand four times, according to the number of characters which are under them; or eighty thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand four times, according to what is of those characters.
Then seven hundred thousand thousand thousand thousand thousand three times; according to the characters which are under them; and three thousand thousand fnils three times; or fifty-one thousand times two times; or four hundred thousand and ninety-two thousand and eight hundred and sixty-three.

8.
When you wish to add a number upon a number, or to subtract a number from a number, place both numbers in two orders, namely, one of them under the other, and let the place of units be the place of units, and the place of tens under the place of tens.
If you wish to collect both numbers, you add one upon the other: you add each place upon the place which is above it of its kind, that is, units upon units, and tens upon tens.
When they have been gathered in some of the places, that is, in the place of units or tens, or in some other ten, you will put one for them, and you will raise it to a higher place, that is, if you had ten in the first place, which is the place of units, you will make one of them , and you will lift it under the place of tens, and there it will mean ten.
But if there remains something of the number that is below x; whether the number itself was below 10, diluting it in the same place; and if nothing remains, place a circle, so that there is no empty place; let there be a circle in it which occupies them, lest, by chance, when it is empty, the place be diminished, and the second be thought to be the first; and thus you will be deceived in your number.
So also you will do in all places.
Similarly, when they have been collected in the second place 10, make one of them; and you will relieve him to the third place; and there it will signify a hundred; and whatever remains below 10 will remain there.
If indeed nothing remains in the rest, you will place the circle there as above.
Do the same in the rest of the places, if there are more.
If indeed you wish to reduce one thing from another, that is, number from number, you will reduce each place from another place which is above itself from its kind; as was said above.
But if there is not such a number in the superior place, from which you can reduce the number of the inferior place, that is, if it is less, so that there is nothing there, you will take one from the second place, which is higher than the superior one, and from that you will make ten; and reduce that which you strip off, and let go of that which remains in the same superior place.
If indeed nothing remains, you will place a circle there as above.
But if there is nothing in the second place from the above, take one from the third place, and there will be 10 in the second.
And again take one of those 10, and do with it as above, and they will remain in the second 9; and always begin in augmentation or diminution from the highest place: afterwards from the next that succeeds it, because the work will be more useful and easier, if God wills.
In order that it may be more easily understood, it is necessary to note this under an example, and to say this in three ways, lest anyone should be disturbed in any way in it.
Let us then set up some number, and let us say, for example,
Let us put six thousand four hundred and twenty-two by their places, and let us say that we wish to reduce three thousand two hundred and eleven from them: let us therefore put in the first place which is on the right, namely two, and the second 20.
In the third, also, four hundred, and in the fourth, six thousand: and let us also put the very number which we wish to reduce from it under it by similar places, thus.
Let us, of course, put one under two in the first place, and 10 under 20 in the second; also two hundred under four hundred in the third, and three thousand under 6 thousand in the fourth; and this is their form.

9.
And when we wanted to reduce one number from another, that is, the smaller from the larger, we took from the higher place, that is, from the fourth.
So we subtracted 3 from 6, and there remained three in the fourth place.
We also reduced two of the 4or, and two remained in the third place.
We also reduced one of the two, and one remained in the second place: and likewise one remained in the first place, when we reduced one of the two that were above it; and this is the remaining figure...
Again, let us put another number in another manner to the convention, of which nothing remains in its places.
And let our number be one thousand one hundred and forty-four, of which let us reduce 164, and let us set each one of these under another in this manner.

10.
When you wish to mediate any number, take from the first place and average it: in which, if the number is odd, make the halves even, and there will remain one which you average, that is, divide into two halves; and set the half as one thirtieth part of the sixty, which make one; and put 30 under the same place: then you will mediate the following place, if its number is even; and if it be odd, take the half of the even number, and put it in its place, and establish the half of one remainder of five; and place them in the place which is before it.
But if it is not in the same place that you wish to mediate, but only one, put a circle in its place, and put five in the place that is before it.
And to work in the same way in the various places.
And when you wish to double, begin with the superior place, and double; and when the number increases and exceeds 10, make one of the ten, and place it in the next place, and you will find it, if God wills.

11.
I also made it clear in the book that it is necessary for every number that is multiplied by any number, that one of them be doubled according to the units of the other.
And when you wish to multiply any number by another by means of the Indian letters, it is necessary to retain the multiplication of a number which is between one and 9 in reverse, whether the number is concordant or different.
And when you want to multiply a number in another, put one of them according to the amount of its rooms in the table, and in any other thing that you want.
Then place the first place of another number under the highest place of the first.
And the first room of the same number will be under the last room of the first number you have placed.
And there will be a second mansion preceding the first number on the left: of which it is a model.
And when we wanted to multiply two thousand three hundred 26 in 214or, we put two thousand three hundred 26 by means of the letters in 4or places; and they multiply in the first place, which is in the right hand, 6; and in the second two, which are 20; and in the third, the trcs, which are three hundred; and in the fourth two, which are two thousand.
After this we placed under two thousand 4or; from thence to the left one in the preceding lines, which are 10; afterwards in the third two, who are two hundred: and this is their figure.

12.
After this, begin with the last place above; and multiply it by the last place of the lower number which is below it, or whatever comes out of the multiplication, you write from above.
Later you also write in the place that succeeds, returning to the right-hand side of the lower number.
Then you will do the same thing, until you multiply the last place of the upper number by the various places of the lower number: and when you have finished this, you will change the lower number by one place towards the right.
And the first place of the lower number will be under the place that succeeds the number which you have multiplied towards the right.
From thence you shall put the rest of the places as their successions: after this you shall also multiply the number itself, under which you placed the first place of the lower number by the last station of the lower number: from thence in that which succeeds, until you have completed all, as you did in the first place: or whatever was collected from by multiplying the place of each one, you will write it in the place that is above it: or when you do this, you will also change that number, namely yours, by one place; and you will do about him as you did in different firsts; and you will not stop doing so until you have completed all the places.
So that you multiply the higher universal number by the lower universal number.
And when it happens that the first place of the lower number is under some place in which there is no number, that is, in which there was a circle, let us make it pass to the succeeding place in which there was a number towards the right.
Because every circle which is multiplied by some number is nothing, that is, no number arises from it; and whatever is multiplied in a circle is similarly nothing.
And when we changed the places towards the right hand; afterwards we will multiply the higher number itself in each place from the lower number, we will add what comes out of the multiplication to us over the place which is over that place in which we multiplied: and while they have been collected for us in some place 10 by increasing number, we will make one of them: and we will put it in the next place is towards the left; and if anything remains, we will mark it in its place: if indeed nothing remains, we will put a circle in its place, so that nothing from the places may be diminished; and we will note that which comes out to us from the multiplication in its place.
We will do so until we multiply the multiple places of the higher number by the multiple places of the lower number; and thus we will multiply a number from them according to the number of the units of the other, and the multiplication will be completed: and this is the figure of the number which came out to us from the multiplication of two thousand three hundred and twenty-six by two hundred 14, which are four hundred thousand and ninety-seven thousand and seven hundred 64.

13.
When you wish to know whether you have found or erred in your doubling or multiplication, take the number which you wish to double, and divide it by 9 and 9, and whatever remains less than 9, double it.
After this, double your number, that is, the very number which the common people should double, and divide it by 9, and 9; and that which remained, if it was similar to that which had remained before, while you doubled it, you have already made a mistake; but if not, you have erred.
And when you wish to multiply any number by any; and if you wish to prove it as above, divide the number which you have doubled by 9, and what remains below 9, keep it.
Again, divide another number by 9, and what remains below 9 is closed.
Then multiply what remains of the first by what you have left of the second; and therefore from what he gathers, 9 if he was there; and if they were not there 9, what remained will be known.
But if there are 9 there, throw out 9 and close what remains; and why these will be known, understand.
After this, multiply one multiplication by another; and divide what was collected by 9; and what remains, if it is similar to what I told you about the note, know why you found it.
If indeed it has not been similar, you have erred: understand.

14.
Now in division you put the number which you wish to divide by its places: afterwards you place the number itself, on which you wish to divide, under it.
Let the last place of the number by which you divide be below the last place of the higher number by which you divide.
But if the number which is the last place of the superior number which you wish to divide is less than that which is the last place of the inferior number upon which you divide, withdraw the place itself towards the right until the number of the superior place is plus 1: place the ultimate place of the inferior number upon which you divide , under the second place which succeeds the last place of the preceding number.
After this, look at the first place of the number on which you want to divide, and put in its direct above the superior number (sic) that you are dividing, or below it in its direct some number which you will then multiply in the last place of the lower number on which you are dividing, it will be like that number which he was in a higher place, and he was close to him who was less than him.
And when you divide it, multiply it by the last place of the lower number, and reduce what comes out of the multiplication of what is above it from the lower number that is divided.
Multiply it again by the second place which succeeds the last place towards the right; and reduce him from that which is upon him; and do in diminution, which we did very well at the beginning of the book.
When you wish to reduce any number from any number, do the same until you multiply it by the various places of the lower number by which you divide.
After this, change the various places of the lower number, on which you divided, one place towards the right, and place it in direct line with the first place of that, in the likeness of that which you have placed before.
When you multiply in the last place of the inferior number over which you divide, they consume that which is above it, or that which was near it: and multiply that which you placed in the direct part of it in the last place of the inferior number; and reduce that which comes out to you from the multiplication of that which is above it; and thus you shall do in all kinds of places: and if there remains of the places of the superior number which you divide something that ought to be divided, always change the places of the inferior number by one place, until its first place is in the direct direction of some place of the superior number: for if it was in any place, from the places the number which you divide, the circle, and the change reaches him, do not pass him, as you have done in the multiplication.
You will put something in its direct line that you will multiply in the manner we have told you.
And when you have done all this, whatever comes out of the places in the direct number which you divide, it is due to one: and if anything remains, it will be a part of one of the number which you divide, and it will never remain except that which is less than that which you divided.
But if more remains, know that you are mistaken.

15.
And know that division is like multiplication; but this is done in the opposite way: wherefore in division we reduce, and there we add, that is, in multiplication it is a model.
When we wanted to divide forty-six thousand and four hundred sixty-eight over three hundred 24, we first placed eight on the right side; afterwards we put six lines on the left, which are sixty: from there 4 or, which are four hundred; afterwards six, which are 6 thousand; afterwards 4 or that there are forty thousand.
And the last of these places will be the left-hand line, and the first eight of them will be the right-hand line: after this you will write under them the number on which you divide; and write the last place of the number upon which you divide, which is the figure of three, and there are three hundred under the last place of the upper number, which are 4 or, inasmuch as it is less than that which is above it: and if it were more than that, let us withdraw it by one room, and place it under six: after this we will put in it; which succeeds three, the figure of two, which are 20 under six: afterwards we will put in that which succeeds 4 or the same 4 or: and this figure of them.

16.
After this, let us write in the first place of the first place of the number by which we have divided the superior number which we have divided, which are four times one: and if we had placed it under 4, it would have been congruent.
And we will multiply it by three, and we will reduce it from that which is above it, and it will remain one.
Hence we multiply it in two; let us diminish it from that which is above it, which are 6, and they will remain 4or.
Afterwards you will change the beginning of the number on which you divide, either 4 or under 6, and there will be two under the circle, and 3 under 4.
From there you will write something in the order of one in the direct line of the lower number, that is, 4, which you will multiply by three, and they will be xu; and subtract them from that which is above the three, which are 14, and they will remain 2: after this you will also multiply them 4, or in the two that succeed the three, and there will be 8, which you will subtract from that which is above it, which are 20, and there will remain 12, namely two above 2ยบ, and one above three.
You will multiply 4 again, in 4 which succeed the right hand, and there will be 16; and reduce those from the co which is above them, who are 126, and there will remain above four circles, and above two one, and above three one.
Again you will change the number on which you divide, that is, 4 under 8, there will be two under the circle and three under one: afterwards you will write in the direct line 4 over the higher number which you divide in the order of 4, and the three of one, which you will multiply by three, and they will be 9; and reduce them from that which is above three, which are 11, and there will remain two above three.
You will also multiply the three by the two which succeed the three, and there will be 6, by which you will subtract from what is above the three which are 20, there will remain 14.
Again you shall multiply the aforesaid three by 4, or those that succeed the two, and there shall be 12; and diminish them from that which is above them, which are 128, and there will remain above 4 six, and above two three, and above three one.
And he brought out to us what is due to one of them; and this will be 143, and 136 parts out of 324 parts of one: and this is their figure.

17.
And if you wish to divide several places over one, so that you can divide one thousand and eight hundred by 9, you write one thousand and eight hundred, the figure of which is that you place two circles towards the right: afterwards 8; then one thing: after this you put 9 under 8, because they are more than 8: then you write something in its direct line above eight, which when you multiply by 9, will consume what is above itself, that is, 18 which are above 9; and you will find that there are two, which you will multiply by 9 and there will be 18; and diminish them from that which is above, and nothing shall remain: from thence make one place towards the right, and they shall be under the circle.
And put something above that, when you multiply it by 9, there will be nothing: why is there a circle above 9, and there is no number there.
You will therefore place the circle in the direct line 9 in the order of two, and you will multiply 9 in the circle, and it will be a circle, that is nothing.
After this change also 9 to the place that is before it, which is the first place; and there were 9 under the circle: and do to them as you did to the circle that was them (so).
There will be two circles there, after which there will be two who are two hundred; and this is what is due to one, and nothing will remain of that which is divided: and whenever you divide any number above any other, and there remain of that which is divided circles, before which there is no number, take what was left of the circles from the beginning of the places according to the divided number the right hand, and you shall add them to that which has come out of the division; and that which has been is that which is due to one.
And this is something close to abreuacio.
Now the first order is the order of the work: the example of this is that when we wrote one thousand 800, there were two circles and a man, and in the third place, and one in the fourth: we put 9 under 8, so that they are more than that which is in the last place ; and so was their figure.
And when we wrote in direct 9 above 8 two, and multiplied them by 9, and there were 18, which when we reduced that which is above 9, and there remained two circles, having no number before them.
We therefore wrote two circles in the order of two, which are above 9, and there were 200, of which this is the figure.

18.
These are the universals which are necessary for men from division and multiplication in that number which is whole.
And now we shall begin to treat of the multiplication of the fractions, and of their division, and of the extraction of the roots, if God wills.

19.
Know that fractions are called by many names in countables and infinitives, such as half, third, fourth, ninth, and tenth, and one part of 13, and part of 18, and so on.
The Indians set the outcome of their parts out of sixty: for they divided one into 60 parts, which they called minutes.
Again, each minute was divided into 60 parts, which they called seconds; and it will be one out of 60 minutes, and one out of three thousand and six hundred will be the second; and one and every second is again divided into 60, and one of two hundred thousand and sixteen thousand will be the third; and each third is divided into 60 fourths, and so there will be a place to infinity: therefore the first is a place of degrees, in which there is a whole number, and in the second stage there will be minutes.
In thirds also there are seconds; and in the fourth third, and so even in the 9th and 10th mansions: and know that every whole number which is multiplied by a whole number becomes an whole number; and every whole number multiplied by some fraction is produced from the genus of that fraction; and two degrees multiplied in two minutes 4 minutes, and three degrees in six thirds 18 thirds.
Minutes will also be seconds in minutes; and the second in seconds and thirds; and a third in thirds a fourth; and the fourth in fourths is the fourth: therefore, when you combine both the places which you multiply inversely, and what is gathered from the number of fractions is similar to that which results from a whole number multiplied inversely.
For example.
Six minutes multiplied by 7 minutes, will be 42 seconds: wherefore minutes are parts of 60 parts of one whole: and when you multiply the parts of 60 into 60, it will be what comes out of the multiplication of 60 into 60, which is three thousand six hundred: and likewise 7 seconds in 9 minutes there will be 60 three-thirds; and all 60 of them will be a second one, and three thirds will remain: therefore there are small parts out of 60, and second parts out of three thousand and six hundred.
Multiply them, therefore, in innumerable times, and the parts of two hundred thousand and 16 thousand, which are thirds, will be made, and there are 60 of three thousand and six hundred.

20.
And when you want to multiply one and a half into two and a half, make one and a half minutes, and there will be 90.
Again, multiply one and a half which you wish to multiply in the same minutes, and they will likewise be 90: multiply one of them by another, and there will be 8,000 and 100 seconds: divide the second by 60, and there will be minutes: wherefore all these 60s and 2ds make one minute.
And you will have 135 minutes: and divide them by 60, and they will be degrees: wherefore all these 60 minutes make one degree; and this will be one whole of the number; and you will have two and 16 minutes, which are a quarter of one.

21.
And if you want to multiply two wholes, that is, two degrees and 45 minutes in three wholes and 10 minutes and 30 seconds, put two whole minutes, that is, you will multiply them by 60, and there will be 120, to which you will add the aforesaid 45 minutes, and there will be 45 minutes: keep them; therefore you have already returned them to the last place.
After this, do the aforementioned three minute steps, multiplying them by 60 as above.
Add to these the 10 minutes mentioned above, and there will be 190 minutes: from thence put the 190 minutes into seconds, multiplying them again by 60, until you return them to the last place, that is, to seconds.
There will be 11 thousand four hundred, to which you will add the 30 seconds that are with cis.
And there will be 11 thousand four hundred seconds.
So you will return them to the last type of fraction of the same number.
Multiply all these aforesaid in 160 minutes, and there will be a thousand thousand, and eight hundred eighty-five thousand and nine hundred and fifty-thirds: why did you multiply them, that is, into seconds in minutes, and they became thirds
That divides by 60, so that the second is returned.
And 31 thousand and four hundred and 30 20 seconds will come out to you, and 30 thirds will remain.
Likewise, the seconds are divided by 9, so that the minutes are returned.
And there will be five hundred and twenty-three minutes left for you, and there will be over fifty-two seconds.
Again, many minutes, so that the steps, that is, the whole number, are returned.
And it will be 8th, and 40th 3a minutes will remain.
And all that comes out of the multiplication is eight degrees, and 43 minutes, and 52 seconds, and 30 thirds; You will, of course, return each one of them that you wish to multiply into another inferior place that was in each one of them.
After this, multiply one of them by another; then divide by 60, as I told you, so that you may raise them to degrees, whether they have arrived from the places that are below the degrees, and what has been, will be the very thing that has come out to you from the multiplication of one of them in another: and there is another shorter method for it: set this order of cst, which the Indians used, on which to figure their money.

22.
Know why when you wish to divide a number with a fraction by any number with a fraction; or a number divided by a whole number; or a whole number by a number with a fraction, make both numbers of the same kind, that is, turn both numbers into a lower place.
For example.
If there is a lower place from the seconds, you shall put both numbers as the second: for if there be a third in one of them, and a second with another, you turn both into a third; if the other is an integer, turn both into that place which was lower in both: then divide what you will upon what you will: after which you will return both numbers of one kind, and what will come out will be degrees, that is, an integer number: wherefore all the two numbers which if they are of the same kind, if one of them is divided by the other, it will be that an integer will come out.
For example: if 15 thirds are divided into six thirds, two and a half will come out of the equality of the division: wherefore 15 thirds make 5 wholes; which, when you divide them into 6 thirds, which are two wholes, will come out as two and a half: and likewise halves are divided by halves, and fourths by fourths, minutes also by minutes by minutes, and seconds by seconds, and thirds by thirds: and when you wish to divide 10 second over 5 minutes, put minute seconds, that they may be of one kind, and of one place; and there were three hundred seconds, over which, while you wish to divide 10 seconds, they cannot divide 10 over three hundred.
Know, then, that not one whole person came out: therefore put a circle in the place of one, and multiply 10 by 60, and there will be six hundred; when you have divided them over the three hundred, there will come out two, which are two seconds; and this is what is due to one: why, when you multiplied them into 60; after you have divided, you have already reduced those places by one place, which are the second: and know why every number which is divided over any number, which is drawn from the division, if it is multiplied by that over which it is divided, will return the first number, that is, the number which is divided.
This is the pattern of the matter: why, when you divide 50, 10 will come out that are owed to one, that is, five.
And when you have multiplied what came out of the division, that is to say, five, in addition to that of the divisions that are 10, the first number will return, that is, 50.
Therefore, when we divided 10 seconds over 5 minutes, what came out was due to one, that is, two seconds: and when we multiplied two seconds, this is what came out for us from the division, in that over which we divided that there are 5 minutes, 10 seconds were made, and this is proof of division.
Likewise, when you wish to divide 10 minutes into 5 thirds, turn the minutes into thirds, and there will be 36 thousand thirds; and divide by 5 thirds, and there will be 7 thousand two hundred degrees, and this is what is due to one.

23.
And when you wish to prove this, multiply 7 thousand two hundred degrees by 5 thirds, and you will get 36 miles, which when you divide by 60, you will get 6 hundredths of a second; and when you divide it again into 6 hundredths of a second, ten minutes will come out.

24.
When you wish to establish a whole number and fractions, put the whole number in the higher place: then put whatever comes from the first place, which is the minutes under the whole number, and the second under the minutes; and likewise the thirds under the seconds, and the rest that you will from the places.
It is a model of this matter.
And when we wanted to set 12 degrees and 30 minutes, 40 also 6 seconds, and 50 quarters, we set 12.
After this we placed under them 30 in place of minutes; and under 345 in the place of seconds.
In the place of the thirds we put the circles, why the thirds were lacking, and that we might know why the fourths still remained.
Then we placed under the circles fifty in place of four; and this is their form.

25.
And in the same way I put the universal places of the fractions under themselves; and as often as 60 or more have been collected in any mansion, we shall put in their place, that is, in their place, whatever remains over 60; and we will make one out of every 60
Let us place it in the higher (sic) place: and similarly, if we wish to find fractions, we will begin with the higher place; and we shall diminish every place from that which is above it.
But if there be in the same superior place less than what you will, subtract from it: or if there is a circle in it, subtract one of the place which is above it; and it shall become one 60th part of the fraction which you work; and reduce from that which you work; and add what is left over the imperfect place: and if the circle is above the place itself, subtract one from the place that is above it, and return it to 60 parts in the place that is below it: then subtract again from it also one, and make it parts as above in the place you want.
After this, subtract from it what you will; and put what was left in that place by which that which is diminished from it was limited.

26.
And when doubling any number or fraction, begin with the greater place: from thence with that which succeeds it.
And when it has been collected in some places something more than the number of its parts, put the surplus in that place, and relieve one from the place that is above it.
But in mediation you will begin with the lower place, and you will mediate it; then the following: and if you find one there, do about it as I explained to you at the beginning of the book.
Even if you wish to multiply the fractions and the number, and the fractions beyond minutes or seconds, as are the fourth and seventh, and other similar parts of the law, and divide them into reverse, the work in them will be like the work of minutes and seconds; and I will set you a model, if God wills.
And I have already made it clear to you in the multiplication of minutes and seconds and thirds about two numbers which you wish to multiply in reverse, that is, one of them in another; how do you establish them of one kind, so as to turn them, that is, into the kind with the last place, that is, if it was the last of the seconds, turn them 2 seconds; and if it was from thirds in thirds, and so on.
Do the same in the parts, that is, if the last place is from fifths or from sevenths, you will return your number from the type of the same part.
After this, you will multiply him over and over again; and that which comes out, you will reduce it to a whole number, that is, you will divide it by the like of the same kind multiplied in another kind, as if you wanted to multiply 3 sevenths into 4 or nines, and those sevens and nines would be in the first place of the fraction like minutes; in its place from the genus of the second.
And if you wish to reduce them to a whole number, divide them by both places, which are seven in nines.
But if something else is divided, and comes out of the division, the number will be whole; and if it cannot be divided, they will be parts of one of the same kind by which you have divided.
And there will be three sevens in 4 or nine 12 parts and 60 in three parts of one.
When, therefore, you wish to multiply three and a half, that is, 8 and three parts of 11, you write three, and put one under them, and two under one.
And now you have written three and a half: wherefore half is one part of two, just as one minute is one part of 60 parts of one.
After this you will write in another part 8, and under them three, and under three 11, and so you will establish 8 ...
