spawn ./glulxe Alabaster.gblorb
Welcome to the Cheap Glk Implementation, library version 1.0.6.




It is the bitterest night you can remember since the dwarrows last marched against men. The sky is too cold, the village too still. There is smoke in the air but no voices from the doorways. The Queen's light burns in the tower window behind you. She is watching, as far as she can.

You and the girl move through the narrow lanes without speaking, past the muted inns and shuttered bakeries, until you reach the narrowing path beyond the churchyard.

Pass in silence the graves of veterans and goodwives, and then at the outskirts the graves of suicides, which are granted no markers. Come to the place where the village ends and the trees begin to grow.

Enter the forest like two spies, one sent to kill the other.

Walk for hours.


Alabaster
An Interactive Experiment by John Cater, Rob Dubbin, Eric Eve, Elizabeth Heller, Jayzee, Kazuki Mishima, Sarah Morayati, Mark Musante, Emily Short, Adam Thornton, and Ziv Wities
Illustrations by Daniel Allington-Krzysztofiak
Release 3 / Serial number 090609 / Inform 7 build 5Z71 (I6/v6.31 lib 6/12N) 

Dark Woods
It is a moonless night. The lantern light does not reach far. You are seldom frightened in these woods, but tonight is unusual.

Snow White is with you. Her wrists are bound behind her back. She has made as much of a nuisance of herself as she could, deliberately stumbling over every root in the dark, until you had to half-carry her this far.

Earlier, you killed a hart and left it here. It was a preparation: you didn't want to have to hunt such an animal in the darkness.

Now, you can't help wondering whether you should have spared the noble beast.

> z
Both of you are silent.

She paces around to where she has the upper ground and can face you eye-to-eye - very much like her stepmother. "We had a deal," she says. "I have made a safe resting place. You promised to take me there if the Queen turned against me."



Your instinct is to put her off. You consider explanations for your stop: say that the safe haven is too far away to reach tonight? explain that you must stop here to collect the hart's heart?

> a haven
"It is too far away to reach tonight." The Queen sent you out long after midnight. There are probably only a few hours remaining before dawn.

She shivers. "I suppose the Queen will expect you to return quickly." You do not say anything, which is a kind of answer. 

She squints up through the branches as though looking for stars; but of course none are visible.

"Untie me, and I'll go on alone."



> no
"I don't mean to untie you quite yet. I don't know you won't bite."

"I'm tired," she says. "My feet hurt. My wrists hurt. I am a third your size. Do you really think there is any harm I could do to you?"



> no
"Probably not." She is a small thing, after all. Delicate, like chicken bones. Funny how when you think of her you always think of blood and bones and dead parts of things.

"I am not taking chances, all the same," you add.

She grimaces. "The Queen must have been very persuasive."



> a where
"You told me before that the safe haven would take about an hour to reach, but you never said which way to go."

"North. Safety is to the north, and the sooner we start, the better."

> get heart
You slice the heart out of the dead animal. It is cold now, just like any ordinary sort of meat.

She goes awkwardly over to the corpse and goes to one knee beside it. "Thank you," she whispers - to it, not to you. Then she leans down and- what, exactly? You can't see. Maybe she kisses it. Maybe she licks its blood. Maybe neither.

When she's done she struggles back to her feet and looks at you defiantly.

Of course you could ask what she was doing, but who is to say that she would answer?

> n
You nudge Snow White onward, but you don't get two steps before she makes a show of falling over the roots yet again.

"Ow!" She half-falls against a tree. When she rights herself, she gives you a look as though her clumsiness were your fault.

Perhaps you could say to walk properly; or perhaps you should ask why she is trying to delay the escape.

> n
You could go on, take Snow White to safety, and return alone. But afterward, you will have to lie to the Queen - perhaps for the rest of your life. It is not something to undertake unless you are certain.

But you will have to make a choice sooner or later. Perhaps now is the right time after all.

It might be just a trick of the light, but it almost looks as though the hart moved.

Of course you could ask what she did to the hart, but who is to say that she would answer?

> n
If you are really going to leave, you will have to decide: do you set Snow White free? If not, you'll be dragging her chained through the woods to the haven. >>yes
You take off the chain, and it vanishes as soon as it is removed. No ordinary silver, that.

"We go on," you say. "I'm going with you to your safe haven."

"If you must," she says - and freed of her bonds she walks very quickly and quietly, so that it is not easy for you to keep up.

She knows the path unerringly, though the land soon becomes more broken and hilly, and the way gets narrower and passes over rock. A little later there are gorges, crossable only by rough wood bridges that are made for smaller feet. White water runs swiftly far beneath you.

Descending along these gorges, you come to a point where the water widens; and there you find the cottage.


Please press SPACE to continue.
 
























And what a strange place it proves to be: a low rambling barrow of earth built into the gorge face, with reeds up almost to its walls, and a rough-wrought door. Three dwarrows come out to meet you in the chilly dawn light. You must ford the river once more to reach them (wishing you'd worn better boots, hoping they will think right to offer you breakfast).

She puts a hand on the shoulder of one of them. In the improving light you can see the trace of blood, real blood, on her mouth - what did she do to the hart?

Inside there are more dwarrows - you are losing count - and in the front room they show to Snow White the provisions they made for her coming. A box like a coffin, bedded with new dirt; a robe sized for a human girl but made in dwarf-fashion, with ornamented discs of wood and brass at the neckline; wine, obviously bought or stolen from humans; stores of winter food that look pitiful to your eyes, all withered fruit and old grains, and a freshly-killed rabbit that no one has thought to clean.

Eagerly, nervously, they watch as she inspects all these, and pronounces them good. You might as well not be in the room. They do not offer breakfast. They murmur to one another. At last Snow White thanks them all for their preparations and asks to be left here alone. Her voice is a little girl's, but it is terribly commanding.

You all shuffle out together, you and the dwarrows. From the corner of your eye as you go you see Snow White climbing into the dirt-box, with a look of relief after a trying night.


Please press SPACE to continue.
 
























Outside, one of the dwarrows speaks up:

"You are not staying here."

You explain your position - how much you gave up to save Snow White - that you cannot return to the Queen. That things are difficult now with the King gone.

They look at one another and snicker and giggle. "Perhaps you should fetch the King back," suggests the largest, whose hat comes up to your navel.

"Yes, go find the King," says a second, in on the joke. "Bring him back."

"I've always wanted to meet him again - he's got something belongs to me," says a third, holding up the stump of an arm. Wounded in the war, most likely, and why didn't you think more carefully about that?

In the end you manage to barter for a day's rest and a little food to take away with you, when you go- wherever you are going. To find the King, if you can.



    *** You have a quest that is unlikely to succeed ***



Would you like to RESTART, RESTORE a saved game, QUIT, or review the ENDINGS you've seen so far?
> 