spawn ./glulxe Alabaster.gblorb
Welcome to the Cheap Glk Implementation, library version 1.0.6.




It is the bitterest night you can remember since the dwarrows last marched against men. The sky is too cold, the village too still. There is smoke in the air but no voices from the doorways. The Queen's light burns in the tower window behind you. She is watching, as far as she can.

You and the girl move through the narrow lanes without speaking, past the muted inns and shuttered bakeries, until you reach the narrowing path beyond the churchyard.

Pass in silence the graves of veterans and goodwives, and then at the outskirts the graves of suicides, which are granted no markers. Come to the place where the village ends and the trees begin to grow.

Enter the forest like two spies, one sent to kill the other.

Walk for hours.


Alabaster
An Interactive Experiment by John Cater, Rob Dubbin, Eric Eve, Elizabeth Heller, Jayzee, Kazuki Mishima, Sarah Morayati, Mark Musante, Emily Short, Adam Thornton, and Ziv Wities
Illustrations by Daniel Allington-Krzysztofiak
Release 3 / Serial number 090609 / Inform 7 build 5Z71 (I6/v6.31 lib 6/12N) 

Dark Woods
It is a moonless night. The lantern light does not reach far. You are seldom frightened in these woods, but tonight is unusual.

Snow White is with you. Her wrists are bound behind her back. She has made as much of a nuisance of herself as she could, deliberately stumbling over every root in the dark, until you had to half-carry her this far.

Earlier, you killed a hart and left it here. It was a preparation: you didn't want to have to hunt such an animal in the darkness.

Now, you can't help wondering whether you should have spared the noble beast.

> cut hart
You slice the heart out of the dead animal. It is cold now, just like any ordinary sort of meat.

She goes awkwardly over to the corpse and goes to one knee beside it. "Thank you," she whispers - to it, not to you. Then she leans down and- what, exactly? You can't see. Maybe she kisses it. Maybe she licks its blood. Maybe neither.

When she's done she struggles back to her feet and looks at you defiantly.

Of course you could ask what she was doing, but who is to say that she would answer?

> ask Snow White about what she was doing
"What was that?" you ask. "What did you do to the hart?"

"It died for my sake; I repaid a little of the debt." Her lips look dark, almost black.

> wake hart
You wait for Snow White to become tired of glaring at you and after a few moments she obliges, turning toward a scurrying sound in the underbrush with a hungry glint in her eye.

Seizing the opportunity, you kneel before the heartless hart and ask, "Hello?"

Several things happen at once. Firstly, Snow White whirls toward you, her face livid. "YOU CAN'T -"

But before she can finish her sentence, in point of fact as she's starting it, the once-dark forest flashes with frantic, ice-blue energy, the air fills with a steady, ethereal hum, and you see the pallid princess lifted before you, suspended in the thick, vibrating air, her rage caught in her throat.

The immediate impulse is to taunt your suddenly riposte-incapable companion, but petty vengeance quickly dissolves in the face of a final sudden development.

Namely, the hart - which now stands proudly upright, its eyes and empty chest cavity glowing an incongruous silver.

It has what can only be described as a wry expression on its face. "I suppose I should begin by thanking you."

You could ask why he thanks you, say that he's welcome, or ask what his name is.

> ask why
You've hunted and bested many harts through the years, but this is the first to comment on the exchange afterward. Awestruck, you manage to stammer "Th-thanking me?"

The decomposing hart corpse glances into the canyon that used to power its circulatory system. "You've been through a lot. Please forgive my sarcasm."

The wind has dropped completely.

The decomposing hart corpse peers at you sardonically. "Before we go any further, is there anything else you'd like to carve out of what's left of my body?"

> no
"No," you reply sheepishly.

"Very well," says the hart corpse, "then let us get down to business."

The light from your lantern casts an unusually steady glow over the scene.

"I will tell you exactly what just happened, and indeed provide enough information to turn the tables on your know-it-all prisoner over there, if you agree to my terms."

> z
No time passes at all.

As though to add to the disturbing qualities of the moment, the hart gives you something that might be intended as a reassuring smile.

> smile
You try smiling back, but it doesn't feel at all sincere.

The hart corpse paws the ground innocently. "It's very simple, really. I want my heart back."

It's hard to imagine how that would be possible.

> a how
For what you realize is, incredibly, the first time, you feel disgusted. "Back... in there?" you ask, gesturing at the decomposing hart corpse's glowing rib cage.

The hart corpse rears upward, clattering back to the ground with enough force to jar a few loose gobbets from its body cavity. "Don't be grotesque. I mean that I want it back in a more cosmic sense."

Which raises the obvious question of what he means by "cosmic".

> a cosmic
"What exactly do you mean, 'in a more cosmic sense?'" You can't believe you're negotiating with a decomposing hart corpse.

The hart blinks, heedless of the fact that silver light continues to escape from its torn left eyelid. "Unfortunately, I can't answer that question without revealing too much of my hand, such as it is. I am proposing you a pact. Do you say yes or do you say no?"

> yes
You figure there's no harm in collecting pacts. "I accept," you intone solemnly.

The decomposing hart corpse clatters excitedly, and its silver glow momentarily surges while the urgent blue prison surrounding Snow White flickers and dulls. "Excellent. It is done. I believe you are in possession of a small wooden box?"

> yes
"Yes, I have such a box," you admit.

"Very well," says the undead hart, "Then you must burn the box with my heart inside, and scatter the ashes round this spot."

You are less cold than you were earlier.

"Only that way can I be made whole - and set free," he tells you, "So, will you do that for me?"

> yes
"Very well, if that is what you wish," you agree.

"Good," the hart replies, "And in return, I will aid you against your prisoner. But do not delay, the deed must be done 'ere the night is o'er."

No one speaks, though only the two of you experience any pause.

"I should have introduced myself. The name's Happy Blue, professional juggler and itinerant dwarf-about-town," declares the hart corpse proudly, crooking a fractured forelimb and dipping its matted shoulder in salute.



You might ask where its name came from or ask whether he was a servant of Snow White.

> a king
"Where is the King?" You lean towards him eagerly. "He vanished, but where did he go? Did the Queen kill him?"

His laughter is sharp. "You are the King."

You could now request that he repeat himself.

> a repeat
"I'm sorry - what did you just say?"

"This is fun," he says. "I could do this all day. I said that you are the King. Not that you'll find it easy to retain that information. Try to hold onto it, or it will slip out of your head again."

You might ask what happened to you.

> ask what happened
"That's impossible - I don't remember being King. I grew up nearby... I have cousins in the village. The King on the other hand-"

"Probably has cousins in the village as well, considering the way his father and grandfather behaved while they were alive," says Happy dryly. "But you wouldn't remember."

The wind has dropped completely. "You've been blood-sundered. It is a magic that unmakes families, destroys the connections between people, and in so doing yields great power that can be used for other purposes."

You might ask who performed the magic.

> a who performed
"But - who would have done such a thing to me?

"As King, you were not kind to the dwarrows," he says, his voice harder than you have heard ever before. "You provoked us. You gave plain preference to your own kind, allowing them to mistreat us, upsetting the balance that your father had - with great difficulty - established. There was suffering and war."

You could now ask how the current peace came about.

> a current peace
"I don't understand." This makes less and less sense as you go. "If I provoked the dwarrows - if I was such a bad King -" (and how could you have been the King at all?) "- then how is it that there is peace now?"

"When you saw what you had done, you felt- you regretted it." He tilts his head at you. "You decided to create a peace. But that is very difficult work, and it is not the usual use of magic." He smirks, if an animal's face can be said to hold such an expression. "Demons arrange magic, and as a rule they prefer to do more harm than good. So you were forced to sacrifice yourself, your family, and lose your throne, and dwindle into no one. In exchange for this, we have had this- ragged sort of calm.

The woods are eerily silent.

"Don't mistake me," he adds. "A poor peace is better than none. I appreciate the gift - though I doubt that anyone else does. It cannot be known what you did, you see. So the dwarrows still hate your name."

> z
No time passes at all.

The silver glow surrounding the hart begins to fade. "Alas, I can stay no longer," he tells you, "Farewell - and beware!"

He sinks to the ground, a final sigh escaping his decaying throat, "Do not delay - box - heart - burn."

Then the glow is gone, and the hart is still once more, with nothing to show he ever moved..

Snow White returns to earth. She looks around her, blinking: she seems a little confused. Perhaps she does not remember you speaking to the hart.

> t I am king
"I am the King. I was blood-sundered."

"You shouldn't know that, if it is true," she says, perturbed. "Though it would explain- but..." She frowns, thinking over this puzzle, and then gradually - as blood dissipates in clear water - the frown goes away and her face becomes blank. Either she has forgotten what you told her again, or she has some reason for pretending to do so.

You can ask if she met the king or ask whether the Queen herself made the magic mirror.

> g
"I am the King. I was blood-sundered."

She looks both surprised and annoyed. "I know!" she says, though at the same time it seems as though she didn't. "It's very strange that you should be, though, because then - perhaps you are my father after all? But that does not make sense, because the Queen..." And she trails off, like a child falling asleep.

You could always ask if she met the king or ask whether the Queen herself made the magic mirror.

> g
"I am the King. I was blood-sundered."

"You keep saying that," she says. "But I don't think it can be right. You would have had to be married to the Queen." But soon that train of thought is gone again.

You can ask if she met the king or ask whether the Queen herself made the magic mirror.

> g
"I am the King. I was blood-sundered."

She rubs her eyes. "I feel like this keeps happening," she says petulantly.

You might ask if she met the king or ask whether the Queen herself made the magic mirror.

> t king was blood-sundered
"I believe that the King was blood-sundered," you say. "If you know what that means. It is a kind of magic where-"

"I know," she says, looking amused. "It is something I have often wondered myself. He would have had to be cast out into the village, I think... or perhaps he would have gone a little further away. Not too far, though, I think."

There is a pause.

She gets a far-away, thoughtful look - as though realizing something that has been in the back of her mind for a little while. "What do you remember about the night the King left?"

You consider whether to make up some lie or say that you remember very little.

> say I remember
"Very little." Which is the truth. You would think that a night with a red-ringed moon, and the dwarrows drumming in the distance, would have been memorable to you. But all that seems infinitely distant now. The departure of the King was the beginning of a different time for everyone: the world became stranger and colder. You can barely remember how it was before.

"Strange." She is looking at you with great attention, as though there were something she wanted to read printed on your forehead. "You really don't remember. And I don't remember. And the Queen doesn't remember -- I have heard her restless questions to the mirror often enough."

A bat flits into the lamplight and just as quickly out of it. "I doubt he would have gone far," she says. "He might still live nearby - in the village, in the palace itself. Who knows? The Queen might not even know him for who he is."

You could ask if she met the king or ask whether the King could be restored.

> ask whether the king could be restored
"Would it be possible to undo this blood-sundering magic?"

She considers. "It would," she says. "But at the cost of losing much of what the blood-sundering achieved. It is a great source of power; whoever performed the magic gained something considerable by it."

You might ask whether the King could have performed the blood-sundering.

> ask how the blood-sundering could be undone
"How would a blood-sundering be undone?" you ask.

She gestures with her chin at the heart-sized box. "That," she says. "It has the power to undo many sorts of magics that work on the soul. You'd need to find the King and convince him to contribute a little blood to the cause. Fill the box part-way full, and then light it on fire in front of him. Then - if you have the right person - the magic is undone and he is himself again."

You might ask if she is a witch, ask whether the Queen herself made the magic mirror, or ask if the Queen is a witch.

> cut me
If you drew blood, would it attract her to feed? Something to think about.

You might ask if she is a witch, ask whether the Queen herself made the magic mirror, or ask if the Queen is a witch.

> g
You slice across your forearm - deep enough to bleed, not deep enough to damage any muscle. You wouldn't want to impair your strength.

You could ask if she is a witch, ask whether the Queen herself made the magic mirror, or ask if the Queen is a witch.

> put blood in box
The lid is stiff on its hinges, but you get the heart-sized box open with a little effort. You squeeze some blood into the box. It may be your imagination, but the box seems to grow warmer in your hand.

"That box is not to be trifled with," she remarks coolly. "I hope you do not do anything that proves dangerous."

> burn box
(with the lantern)
The box begins to smoulder, and then to burn. You hastily drop it, before it singes your fingers. 

As the blood within catches fire, it emits clouds of foul-smelling fumes. You start to choke and cough, and your eyes are full of bleary tears, and you remember -

how the Queen begged you not to sunder yourself

Snow White sitting on her lap

sunlight in the castle towers

...and before that, spooling back, years of pleasure, peace, and even grace; fine feasts at the great table; the beasts you took from the forest, and the revelry; the dwarrows always at the edge of things. Doing well enough, you thought, and if people were sometimes a little cruel at their expense, well, humans are high-spirited - they meant no real harm...

Until, of course, the dwarrows' patience snapped, and the war came on; a war which the dwarrows would not win, but which they would not give up fighting; a war harsh on humans but likely to mean the total destruction of the dwarrow kind, simply because their pride would not brook any more of being kicked because they were about foot-height, of being sold the worst wine and used as jokers in festivals, of having their daughters snatched away by human males with idiosyncratic tastes.

When you saw them dying, because you had not been able to control your stupid dear bumbling awful people, you made a certain choice.

And now you have unmade that choice.


Please press SPACE to continue.
 
























You wake. It is light. Snow White is bent over you - rose-cheeked, innocent, a girl properly again. Your daughter.

"Daddy." She throws herself against your chest before you can even properly sit up, and sobs as though she were five years old, though she is nearly fifteen.

"There was a demoness," she says. "In my head. She's gone now. I'm so sorry. I killed your hounds, I think. We drank their blood. It was disgusting. Afterward I made us throw up. I'm sorry."

You hold her tightly and try to think: but you, the King, sitting on the ground alone in the woods, have no more powers than you had as huntsman, and your problems are considerably more numerous.

To prevent the outbreak of war again, and to keep the dwarrows safe, now that your sacrifice-magic is no longer holding everything in check.

To retrieve the Queen from her magic - your wife, Snow White's true mother - and make her again as she was before the sundering. It is a relief, at least, to understand why you have lusted after and longed for her, and helplessly watched her. That was the ghost of love, dry and joyless, and, being already dead, impossible to kill. But now instead you are the husband of a mad witch, and it was your desertion that made her so, and sundered her from her family. Guilt piles on guilt and you can mend nothing without breaking something else.

The sun rises in the sky and the air grows warmer. You sit like that for a long time, you and your daughter, and think on what to do.



    *** Now you are yourself again ***



Would you like to RESTART, RESTORE a saved game, QUIT, or review the ENDINGS you've seen so far?
> 