spawn ./glulxe CounterfeitMonkey-11.gblorb
Welcome to the Cheap Glk Implementation, library version 1.0.6.





























Can you hear me? >> y

Good, you're conscious. We're conscious. I've heard urban legends about synthesis going wrong, one half person getting lost.

Do you remember our name?

>no
To review, we're Alexandra now. I was Alex, before the synthesis. You were...

>wait
...oh boy. Okay. Okay. I need you on form here. This is going to be hard if you don't remember being Andra. Not panicking. As far as I can tell, the operation was a success. We're meant to be one person now, unrecognizable to anyone who knew us before.


Counterfeit Monkey
A Removal by Emily Short
Release 11 / Serial number 230220 / Inform 7 build 6M62 (I6/v6.41 lib 6/12N) 


Let's try to get a look around. I haven't been able to run our body without your help, but maybe now you're awake, it'll work better.

To get a look around, type LOOK and press return. If you do not want help getting started, type TUTORIAL OFF.
>restore
Enter saved game to load: start6
Ok. 

>go to Roundabout
We make the quick drive through the marina district. 


The whole Roundabout has ground to a halt, with protesters walking in the street and in some places completely filling the road. But this is mostly a nuisance until I notice that there are a couple of teenagers handcuffed to a tree.

I give the wheel a yank and run the car up onto the central traffic circle a little way. Call it a parking job. We need to get those kids out of here before their arrest is processed and they go to storage. I might not have the nerve to do anything by myself, but you're with me, and I'm starting to appreciate that's like being Batman. 

Traffic Circle (jammed into the car)
Normally no pedestrian ever comes to this circle of grass and litter: the flow of traffic is too constant and too fast. But the protest has stopped the traffic and I'm determined to do something about the two teenagers I saw just now, so here we are. Though we probably have to get out of the car if we're going to be useful.

>put Origin Paste on car
We surreptitiously smear some of the Origin Paste onto the car. Nothing obvious happens, of course, but that is the whole point.

[Your score has gone up by one point and is now thirty-eight.]

>get out
We open the door of the car.

We climb out of the car.

Traffic Circle
A giant Atlantida statue stands at the center, decorated in an unorthodox fashion with a sign and a stuffed octopus. Atlantida is to us a bit as Uncle Sam might be to you, except that she embodies the spirit of the people rather than the government. In recent years she's become a symbol of opposition to the Bureau.

Two teenagers are cuffed to a brown tree, apparently for safe-keeping while the All-Purpose Officer undoes their vandalism. He has a diminutive affixer. 

"Go ahead, put us in Cold Storage!" shouts the defiant teenager. "I'm happy to sleep through all this shit and wake up when we have jet packs and a government that respects the rights of its people."

The All-Purpose Officer shifts the restoration gel rifle from one hand to another; looks around; and then props it against the foot of the statue.

>look statue
On the giant Atlantida statue are a sign and a stuffed octopus.

>look sign
It reads:

The Spirit of Atlantis is the Spirit of Referendum!

NO MORE "NON-REFERRABLE PROCEDURES"...
 ...ON INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
 ...ON ECONOMIC POLICY
 ...ON HUMAN RIGHTS

>look octopus
Slightly wrong, actually, but I suppose they didn't have a stuffed squid handy. Of the four symbols associated with Atlantis, the squid -- representing invention and individuality -- is the one that has greatest resonance for protesters.

This one has been tied to Atlantida's hand alongside the olive branch she traditionally carries.

>look officer
He is uniformed and has a look of serious determination.

>look affixer
A piece of specialized equipment resembling a copper-plated staple gun. It shoots "ette's and "ling's and the odd "mini" into words capable of receiving such endings.

>look rifle
A rifle that shoots pellets of restoration gel, converting objects from a distance. Guns like this are illegal to carry unless you're Bureau. They can inflict unpleasant bruises if they encounter nothing to convert and absorb the energy.

>look teenagers
One of them looks nervous, the other defiant. When she catches us looking her way, she contorts herself uncomfortably in order to be able to give us the finger.

>use monocle
(first taking the monocle)
Everything turns computer-monitor green when viewed through our right eye. And staring fixedly at anything will turn up its authenticity status.

The nervous teenager looks unhappy. "We won't get out of here until our families are all dead and global warming has reduced Atlantis to three square feet of hilltop."

The All-Purpose Officer goes around to the back of the statue and begins to climb up the leg, finding footholds in the folds of Atlantida's gown. It looks like a precarious business, but he's determined.

>look tree
It's a tree of indeterminate species. I'm pretty sure it wasn't here yesterday. Though the leaves are dusty and brown, there's no leaf-fall at all underneath the tree, and it's not one of the palms that usually grow in this area.

There is a dismissive blatt from the monocle, and transposed over the brown tree is a faint, greenish image of a brown tee.

>get rifle
We pick up the rifle. It fits well in your hand: good heft. I feel like we know how to aim this thing. It's illegal to carry, but that doesn't seem to be bothering you right now.

The nervous teenager struggles against her bonds.

Gritting his teeth, the All-Purpose Officer climbs for access out onto Atlantida's huge metal arm. It looks about as sturdy as a substantial tree branch, but more slippery, and inconveniently angled.

>look metal arm
It is bare and muscular, as though Atlantida is envisioned championing her people through a series of arm-wrestling matches.

On the huge metal arm are an All-Purpose Officer and an olive branch.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the huge metal arm with the crosshairs.

>look olive branch
A metal olive branch, complete with metal leaves and metal olives.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the olive branch with the crosshairs.

>shoot tree
(with the restoration gel rifle)
We shoot the restoration gel rifle at the brown tree. With an audible SPLORT, the brown tree becomes a brown tee. It's a brown wooden peg for putting a golf ball on. Apparently the All-Purpose Officer performed a little light R-insertion when he found himself in need of a portable tree.

Freed from attachment to the tree, the teenagers look at each other and then run off into the crowd.

The All-Purpose Officer glances around, but you've made us stand so our body conceals the rifle from his angle. He growls in annoyance. "Station," he says, apparently to thin air. "I need back-up."

Understood, says a tinny distant voice.

Once the All-Purpose Officer comes level with the sign, he shoots it with the diminutive affixer, turning it into a signet. It's an outsized signet bearing the crest of the Bureau of Orthography, now hanging around the statue's neck in the same way that the sign did a moment ago.

>enter car
We get into the car.

No one seems to be much the wiser about what just happened. I have to say, you know what you're doing. We ditch the rifle out the window -- it's too large to fit in the car. Traffic is starting to move again. We'd better get on to the dead drop.

Roundabout (jammed into the car)
We are jammed into the car with our knees almost at our chin, looking out through the bulbous little windshield. The motor is growling like a housecat with pneumonia.

The traffic flows in a tight circle around a statue which we know all too well.

Confusing signs point in various directions: northeast to Deep Street, northwest to High Street, south to Long Street, east to Tall Street.

The car is making an unpleasant raspy growl.

>east

Tall Street (jammed into the car)
We are jammed into the car with our knees almost at our chin, looking out through the bulbous little windshield. The motor is growling like a housecat with pneumonia.

Tall Street is very quiet. No celebrations have reached this far, and neither is there any business today; so it has an air of dull abandonment. At the east end the street bends to go around an old park rarely visited.

To the south is the important blue rotunda of the Bureau of Orthography. The street runs west towards the busy roundabout.

The car is making an unpleasant raspy growl.

>east
Since there's no way by road, we'll have to leave the car here. It is a moment's work to find a parking spot. We switch the ignition off.

We open the door of the car.

We climb out of the car.

Abandoned Park
In contrast with the parks in the more savory parts of town, this is a bit of patchy grass where local dogs occasionally come out to do their business. A granite war memorial is fixed at the center, which is why tourist maps optimistically call the place Monument Green. But the memorial is only moderately monumental and the grass hardly green at all.

We step on a twig before we back away again. 

It is a place that might have been developed long ago; only it is known that there are remains of Roman settlement here, and there is a risk that digging out the foundations would turn up some of those ruins, exposing a large number of Latin-language objects to the light of day. To prevent this catastrophe the whole area has been placed off limits to development.

We can go southeast and west to Tall Street from here.

>look memorial
It's a curious thing: it stands taller than a person and yet seems almost embarrassed and self-effacing. The lettering is cut quite small, and the names thereon are tightly spaced. Since 1829 there have been only thirty-five officially sanctioned surnames on the island, which means that, for reasons of space, the names have been truncated to numbers, and the result is a list that looks almost like a table of Biblical quotations: John 31, Mark 12, Paul 29.

The reason for all this compactness is that the memorial is dedicated to the dead of all wars. Deaths from the War of Secession and the Civil Dispute of Standardization, losses from islanders volunteering in the French Foreign Legion, and the hefty cost of World Wars I and II, all are crammed into the upper left corner, leaving room for a long and bloody future.

On the war memorial is a poppy.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the war memorial with the crosshairs.

>look poppy
Not a real, fresh poppy, but a construct of bright red fabric with a black heart.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the poppy with the crosshairs.

>se

Bus Station
A currently-desolate depot from which buses run seasonally to Maiana, the island's other major town. The old station building is a low, rectilinear edifice from the 60s, all pebbled concrete and sheet glass, but it's shut, leaving accessible only a series of empty bus bays and a wall-mounted schedule. The public convenience to the east is the only thing open, while the area to the northwest is open parkland.

A dove flutters from one surface to another, occasionally stopping to stare at us. 

A shed, rather ramshackle and unlikely, sits on the pavement, where it ought to be in the way of incoming buses. 

You have a fleeting thought of leaving your family for the last time.

>leaving your family for the last time
That's not a verb I recognize.

>look schedule
The schedule is an intricate affair, and the deciphering of the various letter-codes and footnotes was actually a subject of study in my grade school. The buses run every sixty-two minutes during daylight in the winter, every forty-three minutes in summer, with every third bus running as an express without stops if the passengers of this bus do not vote otherwise.

During the run of the school year there is an extra inbound bus in the morning and outward in the afternoon; contrariwise the bus is on half-schedule Sundays and holidays, except major patriotic holidays when there is no bus at all.

Like today.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the wall-mounted schedule with the crosshairs.

>look shed
Sheds like this are typically cheap and very very temporary housing for the homeless. The policy of the Bureau is that no one is allowed to beg, and punishments for begging and homelessness are often quite stiff, so there is nothing in the way of an established shelter on the island and little recourse for those who might need it.

There is a dismissive blatt from the monocle, and transposed over the shed is a faint, greenish image of a shred.

>
I beg your pardon?

>east

Public Convenience
There are just the two toilet stalls and a couple of sinks, but the place has been kept up reasonably well, if one doesn't count the graffiti.

A soap dispenser hangs beside the mirror. 

About knee-height in one of the stalls is a hole that runs right through the wall between the men's and women's restrooms. It's here that you and Brock and Slango usually leave things for one another.

A faint smell of lavender lingers in the air.

>look graffiti
We glance over the range of messages from past occupants and notice...

Some wag has drawn an arrow pointing to the toilet and written beside it: P-REMOVER.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the graffiti with the crosshairs.

>look soap
It's the kind where a squeeze will dispense new soap into the sink.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the soap dispenser with the crosshairs.

>smell
The smell seems to emanate from the small hole in the wall.

>look hole
It's too small to get a good look through, really, and usually cluttered with junk.

In the hole in the wall is some ash.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the hole in the wall with the crosshairs.

>look ash
It's fine grey-white powder, and a fair quantity of it: too much to have come from a cigarette or two.

The monocle fails to make any sound or response at all, but no green image forms revealing the true nature of the ash.

>put gel on ash
We just touch a coated fingertip of gel to the ash. With an audible SPLORT, the ash becomes some trash. Most of it's junk: sweet wrappers, tissues, bus tickets. But there's also, suggestively, an appointment card for Arbot Maps & Antiques.

[Your score has gone up by three points and is now forty-one.]

>go to Tall Street
We have a brief walk. 

Tall Street
Tall Street is very quiet. No celebrations have reached this far, and neither is there any business today; so it has an air of dull abandonment. At the east end the street bends to go around an old park rarely visited.

Our car -- which might better be described as a covered bicycle -- is parked nearby. 

To the south is the important blue rotunda of the Bureau of Orthography. The street runs west towards the busy roundabout.

>enter car
We get into the car.

>west
We switch the ignition on.

Roundabout (jammed into the car)
We are jammed into the car with our knees almost at our chin, looking out through the bulbous little windshield. The motor is growling like a housecat with pneumonia.

The traffic flows in a tight circle around a statue which we know all too well.

Confusing signs point in various directions: northeast to Deep Street, northwest to High Street, south to Long Street, east to Tall Street.

The car is making an unpleasant raspy growl.

>south

Long Street North (jammed into the car)
We are jammed into the car with our knees almost at our chin, looking out through the bulbous little windshield. The motor is growling like a housecat with pneumonia.

Long Street is lined on each side with a double-row of tall, anemic palm trees that bend towards one another many feet overhead. This corridor continues some considerable distance south.

On the west side of the street is the several-story front of the Fleur d'Or hotel. 

We can go north to the Roundabout, south, and west from here.

The car is making an unpleasant raspy growl.

>south

Long Street South (jammed into the car)
We are jammed into the car with our knees almost at our chin, looking out through the bulbous little windshield. The motor is growling like a housecat with pneumonia.

Long Street is lined on each side with a double-row of tall, anemic palm trees that bend towards one another many feet overhead. We are now in the southern part of this long corridor, between the Canadian Embassy and Arbot Maps & Antiques.

Someone has left a shopping bag at the roadside -- maybe by accident when loading up a car, maybe because they mean to come back for it. There are a ball and a jigsaw in the shopping bag. 

We can go north to Long Street North, south, and west from here.

The car is making an unpleasant raspy growl.

>look bag
The logo on the outside is from Landison's, a popular toy store on the island. It's probably closed today, so this would have been bought earlier -- possibly even as a present for Serial Comma Day.

In the shopping bag are a ball and a jigsaw.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the shopping bag with the crosshairs.

>look ball
Made of blue and white rubber, and decorated all over with a pattern of random letters in different sportive fonts.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the ball with the crosshairs.

>look jigsaw
The boxed puzzle displays an execution scene, with several pro-British traitors from the 1820s being lined up before the depluralization cannon. It was thought a considerable punishment to be forced to share a body and consciousness with others.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the jigsaw with the crosshairs.

>west
Since there's no way by road, we'll have to leave the car here. It is a moment's work to find a parking spot. We switch the ignition off.

We open the door of the car.

We climb out of the car.

We show the appointment card, and are let in.

Arbot Maps & Antiques
There is a large collection of vintage and antique maps under glass -- the island of Atlantis as a whole, street maps of here and of Maiana, navigation maps of the harbor, and then maps of more distant places as well. 

A stylish mannequin near the front sports a pair of Britishizing goggles. 

Overseeing all this is a woman named Kate. 

"Welcome to Arbot," says Kate. "Feel free to browse and ask me any questions you may have about the merchandise."

I'd like to ask whether she has seen Brock.

>look collection
We study the maps. One in the collection stands out: a map of Slangovia, framed like all the others but of suspiciously recent vintage.

>look mannequin
A head and torso only, and abstractly rendered. The vaguely masculine shape is covered in coarse white linen.

On the mannequin is a pair of Britishizing goggles.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the mannequin with the crosshairs.

>look goggles
An experimental prototype that (from the perspective of the viewer only) adds -u- into words ending in -or, and reverses -er into -re wherever possible. Subjects wearing the Britishizing goggles generally began to develop implausible accents and to have better than usual success wooing American tourists. Otherwise, the goggles are not much use: like my monocle, they don't affect the actual form of an object in any way.

The surplus stock were mostly given away as rewards to supporters of public television, and the Bureau discouraged even recreational use in the 1980s as they began to make progress towards greater linguistic purity.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the Britishizing goggles with the crosshairs.

>ask about Brock
"Have you seen a man -- maybe this morning -- about this height, dark hair, very blue eyes, kind of cocky?"

There's a light of recognition. "Yes, he was in. A friend of my boss. He visited the shop and sold us a map he happened to have with him. Then they left, together. I believe there was some discussion of seeing a demonstration."

I'm inclined to ask which map was sold, ask what sort of demonstration, or ask whether Brock seemed upset.

Something makes you think of how it started with Brock.

>remember how it started with Brock
Sunning Deck
Brock was sprawled out on the cushions with his sunglasses on. Pretending not to see you. You stood so that your shadow crossed his face and he had to look up.

"I've been a jerk and I'm sorry," you said.

"I'm not the man-whore of Babylon," he replied. "I've had the odd fling. That's all."

"I know."

"I'm not James Bond here."

You pulled your towel more tightly around you. "I know."

"And you have lost the right ever to give me crap about women again," he said.

Your teeth were starting to chatter. "Yes."

"Okay. Apology accepted." He lowered his sunglasses again.

Then we're back in the present.

>ask which map was sold
"He sold you a map? Which one was that?"

"It's just here," Kate says, going over to the selection and pointing out a map purporting to depict Slangovia. "An unusual piece."

She glances sideways at us.

We could ask what sort of demonstration or ask whether Brock seemed upset.

>ask what sort of demonstration
"You mentioned that your boss and the other gentleman went to a demonstration. What kind of demonstration was it?"

She smiles and shrugs. "Mr. Arbot used to work for the Bureau before he retired to sell antiques. He still has lots of connections. It could be anything."

We want to ask whether Brock seemed upset.

>buy map
"I'll take the Slangovia map," we say. "It's not every day you see something like this."

"Very good," she says. "Too bad he didn't think to offer it to you directly! But just as well for us, I suppose."

I take this to mean that Arbot is getting a big commission on the sale.

Kate removes the map from its case and packs it up carefully for us.

>ask about Brock
"There's a chance my friend was in trouble. Did he seem to be in a hurry or concerned about anything?"

"Not at all. He appeared eager to speak with Mr. Arbot, and they had plans together, but he didn't seem agitated. If anything, he seemed a little more worldly and collected than people in his line of work usually are."

Cryptic. Perhaps he was posing as a researcher? But we can't very well ask, not if we're supposed to be a friend of his.

Kate rearranges a few objects in the shop window.

"If your friend is missing, you could report him to the Bureau, you know," she says. "I believe they keep close tabs on academic and research visitors. They may well know where he is."

"Thank you," you say. "I don't think things are quite at that point." And they never will be, obviously.

You are reminded of how it started with Brock.

>remember how it started with Brock
Café, Marseilles
Brock was scowling into his drink. "I don't know, Andra. Are you going to flip on me again if we try to be together? I'm not blaming you for your parents, and... honestly, I'm surprised how much you've been able to assemble yourself into someone new. But jeezus."

"What happened to your thing about how everyone goes through life hurting everyone else a little bit, like radiation?" you asked. "But mostly people heal, and it's worth it?"

"Yeah, that's true," he said. "But you still don't go into the reactor core with no suit, if you see what I mean."

You tilted your head. "You weathered it pretty well when you and Annalisa split up."

He swirled the melted ice in the bottom of his glass. "Is this what you're fishing for?" he said. "For me to tell you you're special, you're different, I care about you more and therefore it would ruin everything if we ever broke up?"

You didn't answer.

"It would ruin everything," he says. "Because you're on my crew. But as to the girlfriend thing, I have no idea. We don't know each other that way."

Then we're back in the present.

>look Slangovia
It's a detailed street map pretending to correspond to some remote South African town called Slangovia. Cryptic icons dot the surface. There is a legend in the lower right corner that appears to be a separate piece glued on.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the map of Slangovia with the crosshairs.

>look legend
This legend tells of Iphis and Ianthe: Iphis, a girl raised in disguise as a boy, falls in love with her playmate Ianthe. She prays to the goddess Isis, who takes pity and transforms Iphis into a man, able to marry Ianthe after all.

It bears no obvious relation to the map of Slangovia.

>get legend
We pick up the map of Slangovia.

>go to Fleur d'Or Lobby
Once we get to Long Street North we pull easily into one of the available parking spots, since many people have now gone home.

Fleur d'Or Lobby
The Fleur d'Or is a high-end hotel that serves businessmen and luxury tourists interested in the linguistic mechanisms of the island. As a result, it has all kinds of paid exemptions, including an exemption allowing it to operate under a foreign name.

The spotlights in the ceiling light the floor in distinct pools of Bureau blue, and a sheet of frosted glass etched with random letters separates the lobby from the drinks club to the west.

There is no one at the glossy piano in the corner, though a piece has been left on the piano bench. 

>look spotlights
The spotlights are more or less steady blue, just fluctuating a little in intensity to add to the sense of being underwater.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the spotlights with the crosshairs.

>look glass
The glass is a good three quarters of an inch thick, and looks very sturdy. The etched letters glow or fade out again depending on the changing light conditions in the lobby.

Annotation in the corner indicates that this is a commissioned artwork by Anne Landis Rosehip, entitled "The Primeval Sea."

The monocle pings happily as we sight the sheet of frosted glass with the crosshairs.

>look piano
A glossy grand, probably worthy of better than bar music.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the piano with the crosshairs.

>look piece
It looks like a setting of "The Grammatical Number of Our Enemy (Is Singular)," a popular music-hall piece of the 1890s that still gets trotted out now and then. There are rousing choruses where the audience can join in to represent the enemy sailors just prior to their encounter with the depluralizing cannon.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the piece with the crosshairs.

>look 
Fleur d'Or Lobby
The spotlights in the ceiling light the floor in distinct pools of Bureau blue, and a sheet of frosted glass etched with random letters separates the lobby from the drinks club to the west.

There is no one at the glossy piano in the corner, though a piece has been left on the piano bench. 

Something makes you think of your crew's skill.

>west

Fleur d'Or Drinks Club
The back wall is dramatically decorated with bottled liquors of all sorts, from gin to cachaça; there's a giant bottle of Campari, taller than your average three-year-old, with a red ribbon around its neck.

What makes this place technically a drinks club rather than a bar is its license to serve letter-manufactured food and drink. A toolkit on the bar contains some screwdrivers, some gimlets, and some rusty nails, ready to be transformed into their respective cocktails.

The bartender is in the middle of showing her homonym paddle to a patron holding a gin and tonic. The other patrons are scattered around the room at small tables, drinking or talking among themselves. 

She acknowledges us with a nod as we stroll up to the bar and get close enough to hear their conversation. "It was originally produced as a toy, but it's actually a bit dangerous," the bartender is saying.

"Dangerous? How so?" asks the patron.

"Various ways," she says. "Suppose I hit a small object that has a big homonym, like say a plane. You know, the carpentry kind. Suddenly I've got an airplane-style plane on top of me."

>look toolkit
It offers an assortment: some screwdrivers, some gimlets, and some rusty nails.

>look screwdrivers
An assortment of plain screwdrivers, with strong metal shafts and plastic handles.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the screwdrivers with the crosshairs.

>look gimlets
A gimlet is a hand-tool for drilling holes, like an auger but smaller. It is for piercing things and boring into them, anyway, which is presumably where the phrase "gimlet-eyed" comes from. These are arranged into an attractive bouquet-shape.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the gimlets with the crosshairs.

>look rusty nails
They're scattered around in the toolkit, presumably taken from a condemned building somewhere.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the rusty nails with the crosshairs.

>look bartender
She has masses of curly hair, a classically straight nose, and the most peculiar eyes -- a color neither hazel nor green, and exotically turned up.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the bartender with the crosshairs.

>look homonym paddle
Who had the idea of hitting things to make them swap with their homonyms, I couldn't guess. Nonetheless the toy -- shaped like a ping-pong paddle and formed of coral-colored rubber -- enjoyed a brief vogue in the 80s.

To prevent theft, the paddle is attached to the bartender's wrist by a thin steel cable and bracelet.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the homonym paddle with the crosshairs.

>look patron
He looks like a business traveler, though perhaps at the end of a long day.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the patron with the crosshairs.

>look gin and tonic
It is fizzing gently in its glass.

The monocle pings happily as we sight the gin and tonic with the crosshairs.

>look other patrons
They're mostly dressed in suits or business casual outfits at least, and are having odd stilted conversations in which they try to avoid saying anything meaningful about the work they are here to do.

I don't think we have much to gain from the crowd.

>show legend to bartender
We draw the bartender's attention to the legend.

"This?" she says, looking a little surprised. "You want it converted?"

"Why not?"

"No reason," she says. "Just I did the same item a few hours ago for a gentleman. Really hot, with these amazing eyes-"

"Whatever," you say, before she can get any more excited about Brock.

She smirks. Then she taps the legend with her paddle and it transforms into a proper map legend.

"What if you hit something that doesn't mean anything else?" the patron asks. "Like a chicken?"

"Nothing," she says. "That's safe." As though to demonstrate, she smacks the paddle against her left buttock. "See? I don't get changed into a different bartender. Want to try?"

She holds up the paddle as though she's going to tap him with it.

"Uh... my name is Mark," he says.

"Maybe not, then!" she says, laughing brightly.

I'd like to thank the bartender.

[Your score has gone up by one point and is now forty-two.]

>look legend
This legend has been edited from its original form, replacing the words like HOSPITAL and RESTROOM with other, hand-written labels: INVITE, GOT, 11, OUT, T-INSERTER, etc. By arranging the words of the legend in the order in which the icons appear along the main street, we arrive at GOT INVITE T-INSERTER DEMONSTRATION. OUT 11 AM.

Of course, it's already long past 11 AM, so Brock's plan clearly went wrong. If we're going to go after him, we'll have to go to the T-inserter demonstration ourselves. The catch is that, as dangerous new technology, it's held inside the Bureau and requires a special invitation to enter.

I think I know where we can get one, though. My advisor Professor Waterstone -- that's the person overseeing my graduate research -- was also invited to this demonstration. We might be able to get his.

[Your score has gone up by three points and is now forty-five.]

>goals
Here's what we think we need to do: 
  Speak to Professor Waterstone and get his invitation to see the T-inserter
  Gain entrance to the Bureau
  Find Brock

>