spawn ./glulxe CounterfeitMonkey-11.gblorb
Welcome to the Cheap Glk Implementation, library version 1.0.6.





























Can you hear me? >> y

Good, you're conscious. We're conscious. I've heard urban legends about synthesis going wrong, one half person getting lost.

Do you remember our name?

>no
To review, we're Alexandra now. I was Alex, before the synthesis. You were...

>wait
...oh boy. Okay. Okay. I need you on form here. This is going to be hard if you don't remember being Andra. Not panicking. As far as I can tell, the operation was a success. We're meant to be one person now, unrecognizable to anyone who knew us before.


Counterfeit Monkey
A Removal by Emily Short
Release 11 / Serial number 230220 / Inform 7 build 6M62 (I6/v6.41 lib 6/12N) 


Let's try to get a look around. I haven't been able to run our body without your help, but maybe now you're awake, it'll work better.

To get a look around, type LOOK and press return. If you do not want help getting started, type TUTORIAL OFF.
>restore
Enter saved game to load: start10
Ok. 

>go to University Oval
We have a quick walk. 

University Oval
This is the center of the university, a broad grassy oval shaded with sycamore trees and surrounded by buildings in brick or white stone.

Immediately south of here is the building where I spend most of my time, Samuel Johnson Hall. 

A sign lies on the grass, abandoned by its owner. 

There are a couple of officers lounging by the university gate. We won't be able to go by without being seen.

As I'm taking this in, you notice hubbub behind us. We move out of the way as more officers escort Professor Higgate from the building.

"There's been a mistake," Higgate is saying coolly. "That conversation was conducted under a special license for research in constructed languages. I can produce a copy --"

The officer leading her says, "We're acting on information." He gives a quick, revealing glance in the direction of Professor Brown, who is also coming out of the building.

>wait
Time crawls by. We're looking as harmless and inattentive as humanly possible.

"Alex Rosehip," says the officer with Higgate. The back of my neck prickles. "What can you tell me about his constructed language?"

Higgate stops moving forward and the officers stop with her. "It really is a masterpiece -- the root words are all based on resources common in the tropics. Dirt and mud are highly productive terms, as are many common pests. The syllables are consonant-dense but still relatively easy to pronounce. In my view, it's the most credible proposal ever put forward in utopian linguistics."

The officer smiles faintly. "Isn't that a bit like 'the world's most credible proposal for a perpetual motion engine'?"

>wait
Time crawls by.

"Whether it works or not, I am sure it's not intended as an attack on the Anglophone efficacy," Higgate says. "Alex has a fine mind but very little gumption. And he loves Atlantis."

"As far as you're aware," the officer replies.

"Obviously," Higgate snaps. "I can only tell you what I know of Alex from five years of close supervision."

The officers look at one another, then back at her. "We're going to need to continue this conversation in depth."

A stricken expression crosses Higgate's face.

>wait
Time crawls by.

"I'd like to make a call," Higgate says.

"Not possible," says the man at her elbow.

"I assert my right to a friendly witness," she says firmly. They ignore her.

The officers sweep Higgate away into a windowless van. "Mobile Conversation Unit," says the side of the van in bright cheery letters. "The Bureau Is Listening to YOU!"

The van pulls away into traffic. Brown strolls away in the other direction, not meeting anyone's eye. It's not easy getting tenure around here.

>go to Tall Street
We hike out from under the sycamores in the Oval and up Long Street. 

Tall Street
Tall Street is full of families, some reaching as far as the old park at the east end of the street.

They're gathered around a hanging cardboard figure in front of the Bureau of Orthography. The children, and a few of the adults, are taking turns hitting it with sticks, hoping for a shower of comma-shaped candy. This is a common holiday activity, but from the disgruntled comments and the petulant expressions of the children, it has already been going on longer than is strictly fun.

Another child takes a whack at the hanging figure. She bounces away from the blow, but does not break.

>wear shred
We gently remove the monocle.

We tie the shred over our eyes. To be honest, it only partially obscures our vision; we still have a pretty good idea where everything is.

The latest child's attack swings wide of the figure.

>hit figure with stick
We take a good swing with the stick and connect, finally, with the hanging Atlantida figure.

There is a resounding crack!

The crowd roars with approval, and dozens of small bodies surge around us so that I almost lose our balance. We push our shred up out of our way.

The ground is covered with glitter and candy and confetti; the Atlantida has broken open at the torso.

The children gather their heaps of candy and a few scoops of glittery confetti as well, but eventually trickle away again with their parents, returning through the park or down side streets or to their cars.

[Your score has gone up by three points and is now seventy-three.]

>south

Rotunda
Echoing space, marble floor, eye-like skylight many meters above us: so far, the Rotunda might belong to any 19th-century government bureau of means and self-importance.

What sets this one apart is the lettering, each sigil no bigger than a flea, carved over every inch of the walls. Inscribed here is, in fact, the entire text of A New Orthodox Orthography, which means that if we had a great deal of patience and many rolls of butcher paper, we could take rubbings and wind up with our very own volume.

We don't, of course. There are better things to do. More important places to go. The administrative part of the bureau is away to the south, and there is an exhibit of letter tools to the east, which is open to the public.

Near the street entrance is a sizable informational bulletin-board advertising the services of the Bureau; and next to this, pushed back to be out of the way, is a bin. In the bin is a shuttle. 

>look skylight
It is distant and perfectly round.

>look text
It is far too small to read, especially since the letters are not painted or inked, just carved into the stone surfaces.

>look board
What Can Your Bureau of Orthography Do For You? inquires the bulletin board, in a sprightly casual font.

On a sheet labeled From Plumbing to Medicine... "And More", the bulletin board describes the tools available to the All-Purpose Officers, including a synthesizer for combining two word-objects into one; Q- and Z-inserters (most letters are still under development); and even specially licensed equipment capable of producing living creatures.

For immigration and importation services, such as assigning Atlantean names to immigrants, neutralizing foreign-language pets, and approving imported goods, we are encouraged to visit the Customs House instead.

A handwritten note is tacked up after this, which adds that the synthesizer is unavailable for public use through Dec. 19th because it is on loan to the university Department of Language Studies.

>look bin
BUREAU PARKING, reads the bin, in thick black marker. DO NOT TAKE UNLESS AUTHORIZED.

In the bin is a shuttle.

>look shuttle
It's a wooden device that holds a quantity of yarn, allowing the user more easily to pass the thread back and forth while weaving.

It is also a bit of a snarky joke on the Bureau's part. Atlantean land prices being what they are, the Bureau prefers not to have to build a parking garage. Instead they have shuttles that an All-Purpose Officer with a homonym paddle can easily convert into a full-sized vehicle for use, and back again for easy storage.

The shuttles in their untransformed state are no earthly use to anyone else, of course, which is why they can be left around unsupervised.

>put gel on password
We dip out a pea-sized quantity of gel and rub it gently onto the password. With an audible SPLORT, the password becomes a word and a pass. 

There is a long whistle, a peppery burst. The fireworks must have started outside.

>remove t from twig
We reset the device to t. With a distinct whiff of the faintest whiff of shampoo, the twig turns into a wig. A surprisingly realistic wig, cut to about the shoulder. It looks like our hair, but a good bit longer.

There is a distant roar like a hissing dragon.

>put origin paste on pass
We smear some of the Origin Paste onto the pass. Nothing obvious happens, of course, but that is the whole point.

It sounds as though the sky is making popcorn.

>put origin paste on wig
We smear some of the Origin Paste onto the wig. Nothing obvious happens, of course, but that is the whole point.

The sky is temporarily very quiet.

>wear wig
We settle the wig on our head and adjust our hair underneath.

There is a deep boom of cannon fire.

>south
Before approaching the secretary ahead, we try to hide all our illegal things in the backpack.

Antechamber
The most important task of any government bureau is to keep away time-wasters, irritants, and uninformed members of the general public, who might distract the diligent workers within from their important tasks. The Bureau of Orthography is no different.

An instructive notice details the criteria for entry to the Bureau proper.

Here to guard access to the rest of the building is a secretary on a tall stool. The secretary is carrying the Regulation Authentication Scope and wearing a pencil skirt and a plain white top. 

We can go north to the Rotunda and east from here.

She turns her eyes towards us but doesn't say anything.

My response would be to ask whether she enjoys her job.

>look notice
Please note that those wishing to enter must have a PASS suitable for visitors, which must include an UP TO DATE photograph closely resembling the subject. Passes that do not look like their possessors will be rejected.

Visitors will also need an additional proof of their business in the Bureau, such as a letter of invitation from a Bureau authority.

All credentials will be subject to inspection with an authentication scope.

Anyone attempting to enter the Bureau with a falsified pass or lack of proper credentials may be subject to FINES and INDEFINITE DETENTION.

>look secretary
Curiously, she refuses to quite meet our eye.

>look stool
It looks uncomfortable.

On the tall stool is a secretary.

>look scope
It looks like a small hand-held telescope, or perhaps a very posh kaleidoscope: all brown leather and brass fittings, and a good heft indicating quality materials. The sophisticated electronics are all concealed within. If we look through the scope at something, we can see its true nature, regardless of spelling changes.

>look skirt
A prim, pencil-length number reaching to just below the knee. It is the regulation shade of Orthographical Blue.

>look top
Devoid of ruffles, lace or other distractions.

>ask whether she enjoys her job
"This must be a good job," we say, in our best making-friendly-conversation way. "Getting to meet lots of new people. Access to all the bureau toys."

"They never let me try any of the good equipment," she says, with surprising bitterness. "When they brought in the T-inserter, they let Porson--" Then she stops, her expression that of a guppy being strangled. 

We could ask how she got this job, ask who Porson is, ask what the T-inserter does, or ask where the T-inserter is kept.

>ask how she got this job
"How did you get this job?" we ask.

"Through the usual process," she says. "I qualified through the regional spelling bee, then was submitted to a battery of examinations, followed by a three-year course of rigorous training."

We could ask who Porson is, ask what the T-inserter does, or ask where the T-inserter is kept.

>ask who Porson is
"Who is Porson?" we ask curiously.

"Porson works in the Historical Research Room," she says. "A job he got, I might add, through sheer nepotism. He's no more qualified than I am, but they say he has a 'job-related need' to see all the new developments first." 

I'm inclined to ask what the T-inserter does or ask where the T-inserter is kept.

>ask what the T-inserter does
"What does the T-inserter do?" we ask, as though we were a couple of yokels.

She raises her eyebrows as though she cannot believe the phenomenal idiocy of this question. No answer is vouchsafed.

>ask where the T-inserter is kept
"This T-inserter must be pretty delicate," we say. I'm letting you talk, this time. I think I'm too direct. "I'm surprised the Bureau keeps it in a public building."

She visibly struggles between two impulses: the feeling that she shouldn't be talking about such a secret piece of equipment at all, and the desire to convince us that it couldn't be easily found or stolen. Finally she compromises with "Not all parts of the Bureau are equally available to visitors."

>show invitation
We show our pass to the secretary.

The secretary raises her Authentication Scope to look at the pass. There is a moment of silence. The scope does nothing.

"That will do," the secretary says of our pass. Then she inspects the invitation with the monocle. "Most of the visits were earlier in the day," she says. "Quite a fracas there was this morning."

"The invitation doesn't state a particular time," we say.

She deflates momentarily and goes back to inspecting. "There's another problem. This invitation is for Professor Waterstone. They're watermarked individually to avoid fraud. You're not Professor Waterstone."

"He sent me to do some research in his place. I'm a student of his."

She frowns. "Invitations to inspect highly secure machinery are not transferrable," she says. "And how should I know whether you stole it?"

>show pass
I'm handling this.

"Professor Waterstone is a busy man," I say. "If you want me to tell him you wouldn't cooperate, I'm just as happy not to work on Serial Comma Day. But if DCL wants his endorsement or advice, they'll have to work within his schedule. If you are going to turn me away, however, I would like the opportunity to speak with your manager."

The secretary scowls. "Fine. I'll contact Waterstone." She places a call -- on speakerphone, no less -- glaring all the time.

"Waterstone here," says the phone. There's background traffic noise. Waterstone must be on the road already. Figures he would have a car phone. Most people aren't allowed, here.

"I have a student here attempting to use your invitation to enter the Bureau," says the secretary. "Was it stolen?"

"What? Oh that. No."

"You're saying you gave your invitation away."

"Yes I did," says Waterstone. "And I have been a research partner to DCL since before you were born."

"Sir, you are aware that this is highly irregular!"

>wait
Sure, hang in there. I'm pretty sure that what we need here is to act as much like Professor Waterstone himself as humanly possible.

The secretary is still talking. "You personally vouch for this student? You know her well and are sure of her trustworthiness?"

"Known her for years," lies Waterstone, annoyed. There's a click as he hangs up.

"What a delightful man," remarks the secretary.

She looks over our other visible possessions (the word, the shrimp cocktail, the keycard, the cross, the stick, the banana, the yogurt, the ring, the screwdriver, the map of Slangovia, the sage, the lime, the asparagus, Guidebook to Anglophone Atlantis, the letter, the roll, the tub, the arm, the jotter, and the backpack) and deems them acceptable. She makes us sign a book, for which we use a signature of your invention. Finally: "Go in, descend to the basement, and present yourself at the secure section downstairs. Be advised you will be under video surveillance as you approach. Any attempts to modify or steal Bureau property, to gain access to rooms to which you have not been expressly invited, to eavesdrop on conversations of Bureau employees, or to leave objects of your own behind in the Bureau, may result in your arrest and prosecution.

"Have a nice day!"

[Your score has gone up by five points and is now seventy-eight.]

>east

Bureau Hallway
This is a long hallway with many doors leading off, the business of the bureau being varied and all-encompassing; it is for all essential purposes the chief organ of government in Atlantis, since only a few topics are brought to citizen referendum.

We can go east, west to the Antechamber, and down from here.

>down

Bureau Basement South
We have descended into a windowless underground passage. The hallway runs north from here, and for an eerily long way -- the tunnels must extend well beyond the above-ground profile of the building.

Propped in the corner are some articles that were probably meant to be used as part of the Serial Comma Day Fair, but got confiscated instead: a seer automaton and a plywood cutout depicting Atlantida.

We can go north and up to the Bureau Hallway from here.

>look automaton
It's a robotic head inside a glass box. When turned on, it gives out fortunes. There's an old-fashioned carnival feel about the thing, and the fact that it's a portable size makes it a good candidate for traveling fairs.

The seer automaton is currently switched off.

>look cutout
It's one of those plywood cutouts where a tourist sticks his head through and someone else takes a photo showing the tourist a funny pose. This one puts the tourist's face on Atlantida, complete with flowing blue robes and expansive bosom.

>turn on automaton
The seer cranks to life, looks us up and down with painted wooden eyeballs, and in a tinny voice, says, "I predict you will become BIG. Much bigger than you were yesterday."

>north

Bureau Basement Middle
The hallway continues both north and south, flanked by doors painted immutable colors: hyacinth, celadon, chartreuse.

The cute security door at the north end is solidly shut. 

An adorable video camera hangs in the left corner above the door. 

>look door
A thick iron door, decorated with Hello Kitty stickers. There is no handle and no access to the locking mechanism (though it is certainly locked). The door can only be activated by guards in another room, watching through a video camera.

>look camera
It has a lens, certainly, but it is also made of pink plastic and has cat ears. And it looks like it will recognize us if we approach, perhaps?

>north
The guards have apparently been instructed to allow us in, because as we approach, the door slides open.

The door seals behind us as soon as we are through.

Bureau Basement Secret Section
The heightened security on this side of the door is obvious everywhere we look. The floor is tiled in paisley tiles. The light fixtures give off pale pink light. The walls are covered in frog leather. The doors are locked with padlocks the size of handbags, locks decorated à la Louis Quinze, combination locks made of solid gold. There is not a bare noun in sight.

The cute security door at the south end is solidly shut. 

The hallway runs from south (comparatively normal) to north (deeply frightening). Just west is the equipment testing room.

>west

Sensitive Equipment Testing Room
A room with no windows, no cameras, no recording equipment, and barely any furniture.

A rock sits in one corner of the room. 

At the center of the room is a gleaming new T-inserter Machine. This is a state of the art device: letter removal has been well understood for decades, but insertion is much more dangerous and difficult, fraught with ambiguity. 

>look rock
Heavy, dark, and roughly hexagonal, like a slice of basalt column.

>put gel on rock
We dip out a pea-sized quantity of gel and rub it gently onto the rock. With an audible SPLORT, the rock becomes Brock. He looks a bit haggard to me, but I don't think anything too horrible has happened to him. So perhaps you can stop worrying.

Brock stands, dusting himself off. He looks us up and down without expression, without any sign of recognition. "What day is it?" he asks.

"Still Serial Comma Day," you say. "Brock, it's me. And Alex, but I'm here."

The waxen look melts and he grins. "Thank god. It's harder than you'd expect being a rock."

We could suggest we get out of here, complain about Brock's recklessness, or rejoice that Brock is okay. Then again, we could just get to work so we can be out of here faster.

>suggest we get out of here
"You've been a lump of igneous all day," you say. "It's getting dark out there. If we don't get out now, we're going to get caught by some janitor with a privative affixer."

"I didn't have time to run the tests I wanted to run on the T-inserter. It'll take three minutes and then we can go. We need to do abstracts, animates, and a stability check."

Brock roots around in his pockets and fishes out a sign. "I picked this up in the hallway, if it's any use," he says. He tosses it in the corner.

We could insist on leaving immediately or accept Brock's lunacy. Maybe it's not worth it, though.

>look sign
It reads: "Reminder: the six-monthly security remodel is set for this coming Tuesday. Please be prepared to cooperate with the floorers as they install our new coprolite tiles, and leave no secure documents visible."

>accept lunacy
"I suppose it's pointless to argue," you say. I'm glad this makes you feel warm and fuzzy. "Let's do this thing and get out."

"You know it."

He pauses, listening for noises outside.  "It's weird -- you have a different face but the expressions are still yours. It's like you have a really good rubber mask on."

He runs a hand over the small nozzles. "First we should see whether this thing can reify abstracts."

I'd like to complain about Brock's recklessness or discover why Brock got stuck here. Or, then again, there's always finishing the job.

>discover why Brock got stuck here
"How did this happen?"

"How do you think? I hung back after a demonstration earlier, trying to collect the extra information I needed, but before I could finish, they'd noticed I was missing from the group and sent someone back to look for me. And better to go inanimate than to be definitely caught in human form."

Brock is looking at everything but us. "I've half a mind to explore a little while we're down here just about unsupervised," Brock says reflectively.

I glare at him.

"I know there's no time," he says. "But there are supposed to be all sorts of things in the Bureau sub-basement that have never seen the light of day. DCL projects that went wrong, secret government experiments, possibly a buried command center."

We want to complain about Brock's recklessness or ask what buried command center he heard of. Or, then again, there's always finishing the job.

Something makes you think of how it started with Brock.

>remember how it started with Brock
Brock's Stateroom
Brock had tied your wrists to the headboard and your left ankle to the corner of the bed. He had a thesaurus open and was writing, with a paintbrush, across your stomach.

"Floozy?" he asked.

You giggled, so he painted the word above your navel, smiling, giving the Y a big flourishing curlicue.

"Let's see, what else. Fornicator?"

You drew in your breath sharply. Remembering an angry lesson read from the lectern.

"Okay," he said. "Not that one, yet," and licked away the F he'd begun to paint.

Then we're back in the present.

>complain about recklessness
"This was rash, even for you," you say. "Wandering into the heart of the Bureau with no back-up and no escape plan, when we had a timed extraction to complete? You could've taken me and Slango down with you."

"Sweetheart, don't," Brock says. "Don't do this now. You're not yourself."

We could remind Brock that synthesis was necessary because of him. Or, then again, there's always finishing the job.

>remind Brock that synthesis was necessary because of him
"Not myself," you repeat coldly. "I wouldn't need to be synthesized if Andra's face hadn't been caught on film. And whose fault was that?"

Silence. "I'm sorry that that happened," he says, very deliberately. "But you're not breaking up with me down here, with a spy inside your head. We'll do this later if we do it at all."

He pauses, listening for noises outside. "If it can't do abstracts, the market value is going to be a lot lower because of the limited-depth trees."

>put roll into inserter
There is a loud and satisfying pop from the machine as it turns the roll into a troll.

Grey skin, yellow teeth, green eyes. Legs as big around as tree trunks. A pot belly, speaking of a great deal of food eaten raw.

"No problem creating creatures," Brock says judiciously.

The troll gets out of the T-inserter machine.

[Your score has gone up by one point and is now seventy-nine.]

>put gel on troll
We dip out a pea-sized quantity of gel and rub it gently onto the troll. With an audible SPLORT, the troll becomes a roll. 

>remove g from sign
(opening the backpack)
We reset the device to g. With a distinct whiff of sulfur, the sign turns into a sin. An abstract representation of pettiness of spirit and obsession with needless detail, embodied by the image of a grey-skinned bureaucrat and a huge heap of papers.

He stands back, regarding the T-inserter thoughtfully. Brock goes on about the importance of abstracts.

>put sin into inserter
(first taking the sin)
There are two small pops from the machine as it turns the sin into a stint.

The flickering images represent a period of time spent in the military: a young person in a uniform, smartly waving goodbye to hazily-sketched parents; a duration of training and mostly boring patrol work; release from service, with a few mild commendations and some pocket money.

"Right. It's good on abstracts, then," Brock says, contemplating the stint.

He cranes to look around at the back of the machine, but doesn't find anything interesting. "Next we need to look at the stabilization performance," Brock says. "Inserters sometimes run into trouble if there's a case where the same base word could be expanded to multiple derivatives -- for instance, if you S-inserted CREAM, it wouldn't know whether to make CREAMS or SCREAM or SCREAMS."

>remove s from stint
We reset the device to s. There is a distinct spearmint flavor, and the stint turns into a tint. A neon shade of purple, as though someone had watercolored that bit of air.

>remove n from tint
We reset the device to n. With a distinct whiff of fresh air, the tint turns into a tit. A small, harmless-looking bird.

He eyes the tit. "Oh for a homonym paddle."

The tit clambers out of the T-inserter machine.

>remove t from tit
We reset the device to t. There is a mad-scientist cackle, and the tit turns into an I. It's an abstract that looks like a bit of mirror. When I look at it I see Alex, my proper self, and not just restored to my usual body, but photo-retouched to be that bit smarter and freer of skin-blemishes, well-dressed. It's like looking in the mirror at reality as it should be.

You doubtless see yourself too -- as you are, or perhaps as you want to be.

He cocks his head to look at the I. "I have surprisingly good hair for someone who has just been a rock."

"Objects in mirror may appear more attractive than they are," we remark.

>put I into inserter
(first taking the I)
There are two small pops from the machine as it turns the I into a tit.

Of course, there were other options there: the T-inserter could have made two words. But it seems to be disambiguating to the tit. The question now is whether it would do so consistently or whether its behavior is underdetermined; we don't have time for a really thorough trial set, but checking a couple more times may be indicative.

He watches us with a slightly disturbing intentness in his eyes. I look away again.

The tit clambers out of the T-inserter machine.

>remove t from tit
The tit gives way to the now-familiar I.

He stands back, regarding the T-inserter thoughtfully. "Some inserters," Brock goes on, "have controls to let you insert the minimum or maximum possible number of letters."

>put I into inserter
(first taking the I)
There is a loud and satisfying pop from the machine as it turns the I into an it. It's itself. It. The epitome of itness. Philosophers would pay millions.

There now: the T-inserter has constructed both tit and it. Not very stable, it seems. Slango will be interested to know that.

"Check," says Brock. "And that's all we need here. Now..." He hesitates. "One person escaping is easier than two, I suppose."

You start to object, but I say, "Yes, you'd better return to petrified form." You know I'm right. He'll be easier to carry.

A little grimly, he produces his own letter-remover and repeats the B-removal that made him in the first place. Once again we're alone in a room with a rock.

[Your score has gone up by three points and is now eighty-two.]

>get rock
We pick up the rock.

>east
We get the roll.

Bureau Basement Secret Section
The heightened security on this side of the door is obvious everywhere we look. The floor is tiled in paisley tiles. The light fixtures give off pale pink light. The walls are covered in frog leather. The doors are locked with padlocks the size of handbags, locks decorated à la Louis Quinze, combination locks made of solid gold. There is not a bare noun in sight.

The cute security door at the south end is solidly shut. 

The hallway runs from south (comparatively normal) to north (deeply frightening). Just west is the equipment testing room.

"Alex." 

I can't help it: I stop and turn. It's too ingrained in me. And it's my father's voice.

He's wearing his ordinary work clothes, but he looks strained to the point of fracture. And someone could come out of any of these doors at any moment.

"Your mother told me about meeting your supposed girlfriend at your apartment. She was puzzled by that, but I knew what must have happened," my father says, in a very low voice. "I deleted the record of your unauthorized synthesizer draining the power grid, which, by the way, could get me dismissed."

I'd like to deny everything.

>deny everything
"You must have me confused with someone else."

He sighs. Not deceived even a little; weary that we tried.

Footsteps sound far away down the hall, but no one comes this way. "I didn't tell your mother what I suspected, but when it comes out you've& defected& I won't be able to keep this from her. And you're giving up your career. Mine too, possibly; we'll all be under suspicion, I suppose.

"It's pointless. You could have done a great deal for the Bureau from within. I was trying to help you see that."

We want to lay out our reasons or be comforting.

>lay out our reasons
"I want to do something that matters," I say. "I don't see my work making a speck of difference here."

"You mean you don't see my work as important," he says. "Got that from your mother, I imagine."

We stare at each other, breathing hard.

"So your partners in crime are, what, smugglers? Industrial saboteurs? That's wonderful. Finally some role models."

I'm inclined to quibble or deny being a spy.

>quibble
"We prefer to think of it as ensuring that important technology does not remain the sole property of a restrictive hegemony," we say. 

"Okay, around here we still call that theft," Father says. Somewhere down the hall a clock ticks loudly. "You've left enough traces that people will know someone came in here today."

>wait
Time passes.

"Here's what we're going to do, Alex. You're going in there--" (he points at a door to the southwest) "--and I'm going to call for backup to arrest the first person that comes out. That could be Alex, it could be whoever-else-you-are, it could be both of you in this same body.

"If it is Alex who comes back out, I can't possibly save your university career, but we might be able to make a case for clemency." What he means by that-- oh. Yes. I understand now.

He gives us a hard shove. We're half inside the room when we hear his last remark:

"Alex... don't try to escape back through the Rotunda. If you really can't come home, then head north. I've never seen it, but supposedly there's an emergency exit up there."

Then he's gone.

Cold Storage
Shelves on both sides of the room are full of objects on stands: objects that used to be men and women, and in a few cases even children. The stand labels preserve their original names.

A duty roster is posted prominently. 

If this goes wrong, we could wind up living in here permanently. So we'd better figure whom to send out, and do it fast.

>look objects
The stand labels preserve their names, and a few details such as birthdate and date of inanimation.

>look labels
We pick out a name on one of them: Thierry Claude, foreigner, inanim 1969 on charge of espionage.

>look roster
The roster records duty shifts once every two weeks, assigned to various people in the department, all of them very high-ranking.

"Be conscientious," admonishes the roster. "Read each name clearly while looking at the item through a monocle. If you suspect an object of losing its original identity, contact the Curator. We have disposed of seventeen objects this year!!"

>put gel on rock
We dip out a pea-sized quantity of gel and rub it gently onto the rock. With an audible SPLORT, the rock becomes Brock. 

"Hi," Brock says.

You're silent. I'm not letting you act again. You're not stopping me.

"We're still inside the Bureau basement," I say. "We just need to head out, separately."

He looks puzzled. "Aren't we safer together?"

"No," I say.

>no

"But--"

"Look, just trust me, this once," we say.

Brock backs out the door. Loud sounds of an arrest ensue. I hear my father's voice, and two other people. Then finally the sounds die away.

A faint spell comes over me and I feel dizzy.

>ne

Bureau Basement Secret Section
The heightened security on this side of the door is obvious everywhere I look. The floor is tiled in paisley tiles. The light fixtures give off pale pink light. The walls are covered in frog leather. The doors are locked with padlocks the size of handbags, locks decorated à la Louis Quinze, combination locks made of solid gold. There is not a bare noun in sight.

The cute security door at the south end is solidly shut; there's no sign of anyone still waiting on this side of it. 

Going south through the security door isn't an option; our only way out is north. Just west is the equipment testing room, and southwest is Cold Storage.

>north

Wonderland
The ridiculous décor continues, now so extreme that I cannot even put a name to the things around us. They might as well be extrusions from a nightmare by Dali, or by Dr. Seuss. Offices are accessed by hatchways that seem to have come from submarines, or through passages resembling the sphincter of a great whale, or up ladders decorated with human teeth.

An open archway leads to storage space east of here.

Hanging in the air at the north end of the hallway is an odor. 

>look ridiculous
The name plaques identify such functions as "North-End Meeting Room" and "DCL Special Liaison," but who knows whether the descriptions are remotely true. There is something very menacing about it all, as though one were going mad.

>look odor
I can't quite place it. There's definitely a smell, but what is it like? Strawberries? Burning rubber? Freshly chopped chives? Every time I think I've pinned it, it goes again, sliding sideways to smell like something else.

>east

Equipment Archive
The ceiling is mirrored, perhaps to make it harder for anyone to sneak around without being noticed among the shelves.

The equipment shelves here display an assortment of obsolete, broken, foreign, or otherwise unusual letter tools. There are an accent flipper, an umlaut punch, a Catalan punt volat needle, some broken components, and some lamb granulates on the equipment shelves. 

The functional area continues to the south, and the hallway is west.

>look ceiling
It's gleaming and shiny and very clean and I don't want to look in it.

>look shelves
On the equipment shelves are an accent flipper, an umlaut punch (empty), a Catalan punt volat needle, some broken components, and some lamb granulates.

>look flipper
Not an Atlantean product at all, but a machine built by the state-subsidized French company Aigu. Its sole purpose is to convert accents or remove them entirely, not a function that much applies to English words. In form, it looks like a very small spatula connected by wire to a substantial battery pack.

You've heard of the congrès / congres scandal. One of these was responsible.

>look punch
A very heavy, solid object manufactured in Stuttgart. A wire basket holds the item to be punched; two sharp metal tines descend into the basket at the moment of use.

>look needle
An infinitely delicate tool designed to slip between two Ls. It has no application in English.

>look components
A heap of parts from old machines: cranks, gears, buttons with letters and numbers on them, delicate hoops of silver wire, knobs from which all the markers have worn away.

>look granulates
They're tiny brown beads used to make lamb-stock gravy. Perhaps they're left-over military rations of some kind.

>put gel on granulates
I dip out a pea-sized quantity of gel and rub it gently onto the lamb granulates. With an audible SPLORT, the lamb granulates become some anagram bullets. Heavy, high-impact stuff. Anagramming requires a great deal of force to break the linguistic cohesion of the word or phrase being modified. On the other hand, it's the one process that is routinely effective even on adjective-adhering nouns.

>get bullets
I get the anagram bullets.

>put component in punch
(first taking the broken components)
I put the broken components into the wire basket of the umlaut punch. There is a hum as the punch warms up, then a bang! as the tines come down sharply, tattooing the broken components.

Briefly the broken components appears as the art metal band Bröken Cömpönents, before fading back to itself: there just isn't enough energy to hold the conversion, given Bröken Cömpönents's dismal reputation. The reunion tour wasn't a big success.

When they are gone, a power chord remains in the air.

The repeated power chord makes it sound as though some heavy equipment is being used in here even when it's not.

[Your score has gone up by one point and is now eighty-three.]

>remove h from power chord
I reset the device to h. There is a flash of yellow light, and the power chord turns into a power cord. This is the heaviest-duty cabling I've ever seen in my life: thick as a snake, covered in yellow sheathing, with a massive plug at each end.

>get power cord
I take the power cord.

>south

Display Reloading Room
This area is more or less empty. Hazard tape marks off an area of the floor to indicate that I shouldn't stand there.

A black and white tv monitor is embedded in the wall.  

There is a small black push-button on the wall. 

>look tape
It's striped yellow and red, and describes an area on the floor. Come to that, there's an area in the ceiling immediately above the hazard tape that looks separate from the rest of the ceiling.

>look monitor
It is showing images of the Tools Exhibit upstairs, one of the few parts of the Bureau open to the public. A businesswoman holding a cane is gazing curiously at the Model T.

>push button
A heavy clunk sounds. On the tv monitor, I see the display case black out.

Then there is a groaning of moving metal, and part of the ceiling lowers. This is, apparently, how displays are swapped out for the tools exhibit upstairs: the display platform is lowering to our level, providing access. This brings the Model T, the Etymological Reversing Chamber, and the anagramming gun down into the room.

>look Model T
The Regency-era T-remover is clumsy-looking and too big to lift, thanks to the coal boiler required to power it. It still bears the maker's mark of one S. Meretzky.

>look Etymological Reversing Chamber
It looks like an iron lung -- a large sealed chamber with extensive machinery surrounding it. It is able to make words run back to their linguistic roots: ape into apa, pearl to perle, and so on.

The machine is of little popular use and is principally applied by scholars under controlled circumstances.

Despite newspaper articles breathlessly proclaiming that the ERC will be able to produce the "God language" -- mankind's original tongue -- in practice even the more modest research goal of rediscovering the vocabulary of proto-Indo-European would require prohibitive amounts of power. As one moves further and further from forms that are familiar to modern speakers, the reification effort required increases exponentially.

>get gun
I take the anagramming gun. Anagramming guns are illegal now, of course, because of their desperately unpredictable behavior. This one is a huge heavy thing, though not quite an artillery piece, because of the colossal amounts of power required and all the stabilizers needed to try to collapse the letters back down to a single phrase.

>load gun
(with the anagram bullets)
I would not know how to do this, but you have sufficient expert skill that we've got the gun loaded up in no time.

>go to Wonderland
I make the quick hike. 

Wonderland
The ridiculous décor continues, now so extreme that I cannot even put a name to the things around us. They might as well be extrusions from a nightmare by Dali, or by Dr. Seuss. Offices are accessed by hatchways that seem to have come from submarines, or through passages resembling the sphincter of a great whale, or up ladders decorated with human teeth.

An open archway leads to storage space east of here.

Hanging in the air at the north end of the hallway is an odor. 

>shoot odor
(with the anagramming gun)
The gun fires ruggedly into the odor, which shatters and then reforms as a door. It is part of the north wall, and currently closed.

[Your score has gone up by one point and is now eighty-four.]

>open door
I open the door, revealing a room beyond.

>north

Oracle Project
This is nothing less than the command center for a massive propaganda campaign. Paintings of Atlantida and polling charts cover the walls, dating back to the second world war and continuing straight through to the present.

There are a paperweight and an inciting fable on the long table. 

I can go south to Wonderland and east from here.

>look paintings
The paintings are old, 19th-century affairs, and they show Atlantida larger than life, typically wearing blue, with a sort of French academy face and bare feet. The squid is a frequent motif in the background, as it represents inventiveness, strength, and the ability to try many things at once.

>look charts
Blue lines on the charts record the citizen responses to the concept of Atlantida. They record wartime progress in establishing the concept in the popular imagination, with a spike in 1942, corresponding to a heavy press of propaganda.

After the war, there's a break in the charts until 1951, when tracking resumes. Additional spikes appear at 1968 and 1972.

Each chart also shows a yellow line, which roughly goes down as the blue line goes up. It is labeled "Power to generate animate abstract." The yellow line stops at 1982 and no further points are recorded on it.

>look table
On the long table are a paperweight and an inciting fable.

>look paperweight
Blue and white strands are swirled through the heavy, lens-like hunk of clear glass.

>put gel on paperweight
I dip out a pea-sized quantity of gel and rub it gently onto the paperweight. With an audible SPLORT, the paperweight becomes a weight and a paper. 

>get weight
I take the weight. Shaped like a headless pyramid. "0.5 kg" is stamped in the top together with the seal of the Bureau. It's an official weight, intended to reassure citizens that they were getting a genuine standard measure.

>look fable
It's a short children's tale, with illustrations. A young boy was left an orphan in a certain village. So he went door to door around the village, but none of the families would take him in, all having some excuse: there were too many children already, the house was too small, there was not enough food, the parents were too old for a new child, and so on.

Despondent, the boy was on the verge of giving up when a magician came to town. He went around door to door with the boy a second time, this time asking each household for just one letter. When he was done, he used a powerful machine on the letters in his bag, and transformed them into a LOVING FAMILY!

(The text ends here, but the illustration shows the boy beaming in the arms of a manufactured mother, father, siblings, hamster, and goldfish.)

>east

Surveillance Room
A surveillance computer is mounted on the wall, an impressive flat screen readout displaying current activity. 

Another room lies to the east. The door I came through is west, and there is also a spiral staircase down.

>look computer
Below the flat screen are a keyboard and mouse, both shiny silver. Only top of the line equipment down here, it seems.

The surveillance computer is currently switched on.

The following options are visible on the screen:

Security Cameras
Power Grid
Requisitions
Access Records

>down

Tunnel through Chalk
This passage has been cut through natural cliff rock and looks older than the Bureau itself. The walls are rough-hewn, exposing sedimentary strata. Here and there it looks as though someone has actually excavated a favored rock or relic.

Blocking the far end of the corridor is a metal portcullis. It is currently lowered. From the pulley above the portcullis hangs a counter. 

I can go east through the portcullis (closed) and up to the Surveillance Room from here.

>look strata
Layers of slightly varying chalk color, some of which are embedded with tiny seashells and other fossil evidence.

>look portcullis
Heavy black metal bars, left from a much earlier state. It is currently lowered. From the pulley above the portcullis hangs a counter.

>look counter
One of those devices with a press-button to increment a number, to assist with counting things like the number of people attending an event. There's also a loop to let the user wear it over one finger. The counter currently reads 17.

>get counter
I take the counter.

>up

Surveillance Room
A surveillance computer is mounted on the wall, an impressive flat screen readout displaying current activity. 

Another room lies to the east. The door I came through is west, and there is also a spiral staircase down to the tunnel.

>east

Workshop
A room whose importance is obvious from how clean it is and how little furniture it is allowed to have.

A programmable dais sits in the middle of the room. It has the raw look of lab equipment rather than a nice smooth commercial instrument. 

A specialized wall socket is built into the east wall, clearly not part of the ordinary power system for the Bureau. 

I can go east and west to the Surveillance Room from here.

>look dais
It's a round black metal platform with substantial stabilizing coils visible underneath, five or six feet in diameter. This is experimental lab grade letter equipment, ferociously powerful, insanely dangerous.

The dais has a big lever, a massive switch, and a dais socket (with no cord currently plugged in).

>look lever
One of those big heavy levers you see at demolitions. You won't be tripping this thing by accident.

The big lever is currently switched off.

>look switch
A large black switch with a red arrow painted on it. There are two stops, labeled with black marker on tape: swap homonym and synthesize. It is currently set to swap homonym.

>look socket
A power socket suitable for plugging a cord into.

>plug cord into wall
I plug the power cord firmly into the wall socket. The other end remains free and not plugged into anything.

>plug cord into dais
I plug the power cord firmly into the dais socket. Both ends of the power cord are now plugged in, so the dais is connected to the wall socket.

>east

Generator Room
The walls are lined with concrete. Yellow paint lettering says CAUTION: HIGH ENERGY EQUIPMENT and DO NOT OPERATE WITHOUT TRAINING.

A first aid station is built onto the wall. It is closed. 

Most of the room is taken up with a gigantic boiler installation that is currently off. The locking mechanism is a brushed steel bucket, currently empty. 

>look station
It's a large box mounted to the wall, with a red cross painted on the front of it.

>look bucket
Attached to the machine is a brushed steel bucket, with insulated walls; it looks like a large version of an ice bucket for chilling sparkling wines.

Around the outside of the bucket are all sorts of odd gears, sprockets, parts, and bits, which have been attached in a haphazard way with bolts, wire, and duct tape. Presumably this does something to items placed in the bucket.

At the lip of the bucket is a switch labeled REVERSE. The switch is currently off.

>put stick in bucket
There is a churning noise from within the brushed steel bucket, and a moment later I see inside some stock. Pale brown stock, still warm and steaming slightly.

This appears to have unlocked the mechanism. With a growl, the boiler comes to life.

There's a particularly vibrant blue-white flash from within the boiler. All the meters twitch.

[Your score has gone up by one point and is now eighty-five.]

>west

Workshop
A room whose importance is obvious from how clean it is and how little furniture it is allowed to have.

A programmable dais sits in the middle of the room. It has the raw look of lab equipment rather than a nice smooth commercial instrument. 

A power cord snakes across the floor, connecting the dais socket to the wall socket. 

I can go east to the Generator Room and west to the Surveillance Room from here.

>flip switch
I give the switch a strong twist and turn it to synthesize.

>put counter on dais
I put the counter on the programmable dais.

>put weight on dais
I put the weight on the programmable dais.

>pull lever
The programmable dais glows vibrant blue for five seconds, leaving behind a counterweight.

A very substantial hunk of metal with a ring at the top end, suitable for attachment to a hook or rope.

>get counterweight
I pick up the counterweight.

>go to Tunnel through Chalk
It's a brief walk. 

Tunnel through Chalk
This passage has been cut through natural cliff rock and looks older than the Bureau itself. The walls are rough-hewn, exposing sedimentary strata. Here and there it looks as though someone has actually excavated a favored rock or relic.

Blocking the far end of the corridor is a metal portcullis. It is currently lowered. There's a pulley and hook arrangement above the portcullis, but the hook is empty. 

I can go east through the portcullis (closed) and up to the Surveillance Room from here.

The air stirs with a breeze from the east.

>put counterweight on hook
I hang the counterweight on the hook. The portcullis shifts slightly but doesn't rise on its own. Perhaps with a little help, though.

>open portcullis
I open the portcullis.

Something like the cry of a seagull comes down the passage.

>east

Personal Apartment
At a guess, this is a room hardly anyone ever visits, or even knows about. Though the ceiling and one wall are bare cave, the rest has been paneled and  graciously decorated in the style of the end of the 18th century. Oil paintings on the walls depict great men and women of Atlantis gone by: Phyllida Shaply, Amelia Landison, Clarence Arbot, Jon Rosehip. An antique bed stands in the center of the room.

The metal portcullis guards the way back. It is currently raised. From the pulley above the portcullis hangs a counterweight. 

There are a stack of files and a rubber stamp on the inlaid desk. 

Air and sunlight stream in from the east.



Please press SPACE to continue.
 

























"Don't move, Alexandra, or I'll split you in two."

A very tall woman with Bureau-blue eyes steps into the room from the east, carrying a restoration gel rifle. Her face is ageless, her mouth full-lipped but proud. We've never met, but I recognize her at once.

Atlantida moves the rifle a fraction and fires through the portcullis at the counterweight. With an audible SPLORT, the counterweight becomes a weight and a counter. 

The weight falls to the ground.

The portcullis crashes shut.

>shoot rifle with gun
She sees us moving the gun into position, and our reflexes are slower than hers.

She fires again. The pellet hits us, cold and hard, in the shoulder. It stings like hell and for a moment I think our clavicle is broken. I put our hand over the wounded spot.

Our hand.

Atlantida lowers the rifle, surprised. "Fused," she says. "Isn't that interesting. And so recently, too. If the gel rifle won't separate you, nothing will." She smiles, not warmly. "Pity. You would have been easier to deal with separately. Cold Storage for Andra, house arrest for Alex."

Fused? We should be two pieces by now. Maybe she has an explanation? But you seem to be focused on her gun hand. How can you be so calm?

>shoot rifle with gun
The gun fires ruggedly into the restoration gel rifle, which shatters and then reforms as an infertile astrologer. She's a woman with long grey hair, well past menopause.

The infertile astrologer falls awkwardly to earth and looks around in confusion.

"Oh, bravo," says Atlantida. "Could you possibly have made a less useful ally?"

>put gel on astrologer
The astrologer is still a little too far away to reach. She's moving towards us, though. If we wait, perhaps...

Atlantida smiles with half a mouth. "You've arrived on a difficult day. In the ordinary course of things, I keep things quiet: the spirit of democracy, but none of the sordid wrangling and bribes and corruption and compromise. It's only when the spirit of the island itself is threatened, that we have to resort to such extreme measures."

The infertile astrologer sidles closer to us, smiling and making hand signs that I think are supposed to represent Aries. Old bat.

My response would be to ask whether the protesters feel the same way.

>put gel on astrologer
I dip out a pea-sized quantity of gel and rub it gently onto the infertile astrologer. With an audible SPLORT, the infertile astrologer becomes a restoration gel rifle. 

Atlantida realizes that the restoration gel rifle is now a couple of meters away from her. 

She presses a button on something in her hand. Far away, a high-pitched bell rings.

"Did you have anything else you wanted to ask me? I so rarely get to talk with ordinary citizens. Only ones with clearance, and those about to go into Cold Storage. A last interview with Saint Peter."

>shoot Atlantida with rifle
We sidle over and casually pick up the restoration gel rifle as though we were just curious. Or maybe had an insatiable urge to tidy up.

Her eyes follow the gesture. "Don't you dare, you little traitor," she says. "I have been your mother, your father, your waking up and your going to sleep, your teachers and your lovers and your friends. I am the integrity of this island. Change me and you change Atlantis forever."

"Maybe it's time," I say. "Maybe part of the business of democracy is having the arguments--"

You don't let me finish. I shoot the restoration gel rifle at Atlantida. With an audible SPLORT, Atlantida becomes an atlantida. It's a sort of shellfish, vaguely like a clam or scallop but bigger and with different ridges.

>look paintings
They look like originals. I have seen some of these portraits before, in books at school or in the museum, but was given to understand that they'd been stolen, leaving only photographs or replicas.

>look desk
Very elegant and delicate.

On the inlaid desk are a stack of files and a rubber stamp.

>look files
Even a quick look through the titles gives some idea. "DCL Plausibility studies on a syllable-removing gun." "Economic impact study towards an S-inserter, with particular attention to factory closures and workforce reduction in the developing world." "Single-noun Targeted Bomb." "Popular Opinion Study Concerning Utopian Linguistics." "Monthly Counterintelligence Report on Progress towards Manipulation of Simplified Chinese Character Set."

There are others like this, some thin, some fat with paperwork and sticky notes.

>look stamp
It is made to stamp two words: ETHICAL VETO. The discoloration shows it has indeed been used, though not, perhaps, very recently.

>east

Private Solarium
A window in the north wall, cut out through the cliff face, gives a view of tranquil sea under a darkening sky. 

Left on a coffee table (as though waiting for maid service) is a silver tray. On the silver tray are some jacks, a cloth napkin, some crumbs, and a dirty coffee cup. 

There is an ebook reader on the chaise longue. 

There's a distant sound of movement. Someone is looking for us.

>look table
Antique as well, most likely. It is the same handsome wood as the furnishings in the rest of the apartment.

On the coffee table is a silver tray (on which are some jacks, a cloth napkin, some crumbs, and a dirty coffee cup (empty)).

>look tray
Just matte enough to give no reflections, and stamped with a classical Atlantean pattern of overlapping olive branches and chard leaves.

On the silver tray are some jacks, a cloth napkin, some crumbs, and a dirty coffee cup (empty).

>look jacks
A set of children's playing jacks. They are lined up, with curious precision, into the letter A.

>look napkin
Good linen in eau-de-nil, monogrammed with a large A, and smeared with a few smudges of honey.

>look crumbs
At a guess, they come from some sort of breakfast roll or pastry.

>look cup
The residual liquid in the bottom reveals that the person whose breakfast this was takes a small amount of milk and no sugar.

>look longue
It implies afternoons of elegant indolence. Many of them.

On the chaise longue is an ebook reader.

>look reader
An expensive recent model, silver-backed, with a glossy touch screen.

The ebook reader is currently switched off.

>save
Enter saved game to store: mid13
Ok.

>goals
Here's what I think I need to do: 
  Escape the Bureau

>i
I am equipped with the following essentials: an anagramming gun, a backpack, a flash drive, your H-remover (upgraded to handle animates and abstracts), a monocle, some Origin Paste, a pan (really the smuggled plans in disguise), a roll, and a tub of restoration gel.

I am also carrying an arm, some asparagus, a banana, a cross, Guidebook to Anglophone Atlantis, a jotter, a keycard (which opens the small door), a letter, a lime, a map of Slangovia, a pass, a restoration gel rifle, a ring (which opens the sturdy iron gate), some sage, a screwdriver, a shred, a shrimp cocktail, a wig, a word, and some yogurt.

Of that collection, the flash drive, the monocle, the Origin Paste, and the pan (really the smuggled plans in disguise) are packed away in the backpack, which is gaping wide open so everyone can see what's inside. 

I am wearing the wig and the shred. 

>