spawn ./glulxe cragne.gblorb
Welcome to the Cheap Glk Implementation, library version 1.0.6.




Welcome to Cragne Manor! Before we begin, we want to make sure you really understand what you're getting yourself into...

[press any key to continue]
























CONTENT WARNING

Please be warned that this game contains:

cosmic horror, body horror, psychological horror, gore, violence, murder, death, self-harm, suicide, mutilation, decapitation, racism, spiders, snakes, rats, aggressive birds, deceased animals, insects, incest, nonexplicit references to uncomfortable sexual situations involving minors, abusive relationships, domestic violence, pregnancy loss, ghosts, mental illness, homelessness, alcoholism, oppressive religious organizations, bullying, kidnapping, hostile vegetation, fungal overgrowth, creepy dolls, creepy children, references to human/anthropomorphic animal sex, eyeball contact, scatological references, strong language, virgin sacrifice, demon summoning, demon possession, blood, skeletons, viscera, infectious disease...

...and possibly several other types of disturbing content we forgot to include.

Would you still like to continue? (Please type yes or no.)
yes
























CONCEPT WARNING

To commemorate the 20th anniversary of Michael Gentry's Anchorhead, we got more than eighty people together and assigned each of them to create one room of a massive Anchorheadesque world. The authors were given basic information about what their rooms were and how they fit into the game's puzzle progression; beyond that, we told them to do whatever they wanted. We didn't tell anybody what was going on in anybody else's rooms.

This resulted in a game that is ridiculous. The world the authors created is inconsistent and often nonsensical. Commands that are necessary to progress in one room might not work anywhere else. Many of the puzzles are, by ordinary human standards, deeply unfair. By ordinary human standards, this is not a good game.

If you approach Cragne Manor as an conventional work of interactive fiction, you'll find it confusing and frustrating. Temper your expectations, be prepared for the weirdness you're diving into. You'll still end up confused and frustrated at some point. Then you'll discover that this is completely worth it.

Would you still like to continue? (Please type yes or no.)
yes
























Thank you, and enjoy your stay in Cragne Manor! For more information about the game, please type ABOUT or CREDITS at any time.

[press any key to begin]

























The cold autumn wind makes you shiver. The train station is eerily deserted: no staff, no other passengers. Even the train you arrived on has disappeared into the distance as if it had never been here. Your memory of the trip already seems faded and unreal, like a dream.

The sign hanging overhead catches your eye: "Backwater Station." Yes: Backwater, Vermont. This is where you need to be. You need to find Peter.

Cragne Manor
An Anchorhead tribute by various authors
Release 10 / Serial number 181208 / Inform 7 build 6M62 (I6/v6.33 lib 6/12N)

Railway Platform (Naomi Hinchen)
The platform is open to the outdoors, but has an overhanging roof with a rusted sign hanging from it. At the back of the platform, to the south, is the entrance to the lobby. Train tracks stretch off into the distance to the east and west; on the other side of the track is a graffitied brick wall. The only other living creature in sight is a rat fixing you with its beady black eyes.

The clock overhead gives the time as 6:20 pm; beneath the clock is a schedule board listing train arrival times. On the platform itself are a wooden bench, a storage locker, and a vending machine.

>restore
Enter saved game to load: drinking-fountain
Ok.

>x fountain
An ornate brick drinking fountain, with a spout above a silver bowl, a button underneath, and surrounded by ivy.

>x button
A round button set in the brick underneath the bowl of the drinking fountain.

>push it
You take a drink from the fountain.  The water is lukewarm and vaguely brackish.

>x ivy
Thick ivy grows around the fountain, obscuring all but the bowl and spout.

>move ivy
You pull back the ivy from the side of the fountain, revealing, for some reason, a second fountain.

>x secondary
(the secondary fountain)
The smaller fountain is nearly obscured by the disturbed ivy.  Its bowl is filled with decaying leaves and crawling insects, and rust covers all its exposed metal.  A crumbling sign is mounted in the brick above the spout.

>x sign
COLORED

>push rusty button
The rusty button on the secondary fountain does nothing when you push it.

>x coffee
The swirls in your cup form a roller blade. Modes of transportation mean that your current environment presents challenges that can only be overcome by seeking fresh perspectives elsewhere until you're ready to return.

>ne

Town square, Backwater, VT (Marco Innocenti)
The large, hexagonal-shaped square is paved with big, white stones, polished by rain and wind over the decades; around it, low red-brick buildings look like watching peasants. One single street leaves the square to the north, while less accommodating paths lead west, in the direction of a towering church, and southwest.
Due east, an iron bridge crosses the river, and southeast, a walkway leads down to its bank.

The swollen, slate-colored clouds that blanket the sky are reflected in the shiny, circular shape embellishing the center of the square, muttering ominous portents amongst themselves.

A man is leaning on the bridge rail, staring intensely at you with his only eye.

>se

River Walk (Adam Whybray)
A dirt path along the west bank of the Makaskuta - or Blackgourd - River. The air is motionless and sweltry, the urticariate heat drawing sweat profusely from your prickling glands.

Just below you, to your side, the river burbles in vainglorious stupor, foaming in bright patches from the surfacants released from the rotting deposits of the red maples and poplars that line its banks. A single black ash, denuded of leaves, its corky bark blighted with the telltale signs of parasitic infection, quietly interrupts the Autumnal foliage of its deciduous cousins.

The river's waters slith over rocks as lustrous-gray as seal skin, rending them freshly burnished for the mid-September sun, which casts Her rays in refulgent slats through the rust-honey colored trees. It is though Nature, in celebration of Her own fecundity, has chosen to offer Herself up in Equinoxical sacrifice - the rocks laid out before the blazing altar of the sun.

There is a forbidding sign on the bank of the river.

The way up to Backwater town square is northwest. Following the path north leads under the bridge.

On the Makaskuta river is a buoy.

You can also see a grimy rock, a long hooked pole, a dying crawfish and a soggy tome here.

A mistlike trolley stop sign reads Aqua Line -- River Walk.

>read sign
A wooden sign with a chunk missing from its bottom-right corner is embedded in the mud off the side of the path near the edge of the riverbank. Engraved in the sign is the message "Fishing and trapping allowed. Strictly no swimming."

>x river
The river's name is said to date back to the 17th century, Christened by a local Algonquian tribe after the peculiarly black coloration of the cucurbita pepo gourds that sprouted in the floodplains south of Backwater. Natives believed local Jesuit Ministers to use the gourds in Devil worship and to prevent these rituals from taking place would uproot the warty vegetables and "drown" them in the river.

Across the 19th century, the Makaskuta became increasingly inhospitable to life due to the paper mills of Backwater discharging their untreated waste directly into its water - an industry that flourished in the period due to the competing demands of two local printing establishments which specialized in bound volumes of the letters, prayers and instructions of St. Ignatius of Loyola. By the 1870s the river was regularly running the color of strained tomato soup and, according to the 17th July 1874 edition of the Backwater Gazette, stank of "rank putrescence ... as though nothing borne of this Earth".

Only the interventions of the mysterious philanthropist Dr. Elias Saltz, DDiv in the latter part of the 1960s were able to restore the Makaskuta to its once verdant glories. The good Doctor may also be thanked for the introduction of the C. Robustus genus of giant crawfish into the Makaskuta, for which it is now justly celebrated.

The river babbles to itself complacently.

On the Makaskuta river is a buoy.

>x buoy
A buoy the color of a Caucasian's flesh bobs uneasily upon the water.  It certainly can't be for the sake of swimmers since the wooden sign makes it very clear this is prohibited. Perhaps some trappers are marking their catch?

>x ash
The scaly trunk of the black ash is marked by the signs of both fungal damage and the Emerald Ash Borer. Where sections of bark have flaked away from the trunk, weevil-wheedling paths of pale discoloration caused by the larval secretions of this virulent insect can be discerned. Epicormic shoots shamelessly sprout forth from this blighted trunk like unwanted fingers.

>x rock
A solitary rock squats at the edge of the river bank, sullenly surveying the fresh, water-slick countenances of its semi-subnautical brethren.

>take it
Taken.

>x pole
(the long hooked pole)
A long stick of wood with a rusted copper fishing hook of approximately six inches attached to the end of it with thickly knotted twine. This is known to New England lobster trappers as a "gaff".

>take it
Taken.

>x crawfish
A crawfish of unimaginable proportions skulks in a clump of weedy grass at the side of the path closest to the river. The fact that he is out of the water, just perceptibly twitching like a half-squashed insect and slowly drumming his spiny legs like an office worker pensively tapping his fingers on a desk, is a strong indication that under his hard carapace he is crawling with infection. He is broken, mouldering, no damn good despite his considerable size.

As though sensing your judgment, the crawldad's antennae tremble ineffectually.

>x soggy tome
A water-damaged and mud-stained book left forgotten on the riverbank by some freshwater lobster fisherman. Emblazoned upon the cover of the soggy tome is the title Padoson's Rules of Crawfish: A Guide for Men of Maine.

The volume appears to be a personal copy rather than a library book. Perhaps the owner had gleaned all he could from the work and made any necessary transformations following Padoson's advice.

>take it
Taken.

>read it
You open to the first page of the book and read...

"Crawfish, crawldads, mountain lobsters, mudbugs, yabbies, or however you know these mighty members of the Astacoidea and Parastacoidea superfamilies, have long been kin to the men of the New England, forging communities of inviolable hierarchy below water, much as we build and sustain such communities above. As with men, dominance determines these bio-mythic structures..."

You skip ahead.

"Those crawfish stricken by the plague must invariably fall by the wayside much as the Spartans would throw weak and crippled newborn from the top of Mount Taygete, dashing the runts and striplings upon the rocks below."

Rhetoric of this nature seems to continue for several pages.

"My father and I would sit together at the bank of the river and while father told me of the venal deceits of his wife we would catch those smallest crawfish - invariably the females of the species - which attempted to escape from the exit hole of the parlor, and father would delight me by cracking them upon his great bony knees. Later, when confronted with the disappointments of my youngest son, I would imagine taking him as my father had done the runtish bints, cracking him with satisfaction upon my own knee."

You flick ahead to the middle of the book.

"By means of these simple hand-binding exercises you will be able to Set your Claws in Order. While the experience will be painful at first, you must NEVER INDUCE YOURSELF INTO THINKING THAT LIFE IS ANYTHING OTHER THAN PAIN."

There follows pages of bewildering diagrams which seem to depict men with lobster appendages fighting the Swimmerets of Chaos.

"... until the blood takes the form of a transluscent white gel, which you should then inject ... commercial fishing licences ... scream in the water like egg-burst women ... telomerase now in the DNA of your cells is the Chrysopoeia ... baptized by briny Neptune ...  dying and molting and eating oneself in the charnel house of bloodied bones ... "

From hereon in the words become incomprehensible.

Intellectual stuff.

>fish river
You fish the Makaskuta with the long hooked pole, thrusting it down into the water beneath the buoy, where it knocks against something heavy and - judging by the feel of its contact against the pole - wooden. You manage to manoeuvre the hook between what you presume to be two planks of wood and then, with considerable effort, pull the mysterious object to the riverbank. It is a freshwater lobster trap!

>x trap
(the freshwater lobster trap)
The trap looks rather like a rabbit hutch, approximately 600 mm in length, almost cuboid but slightly curved at the top edges so that its width is marginally more narrow at the top than at the bottom, where it measures around 300 mm. The framework of the trap seems to be made of slats of ash, which goes some way to explaining its weight. Along one side of the trap is a wire-frame mesh door attached to the body of the trap with copper "J Clip" hinges, long rusted. The door is held shut at the other end by two thin loops of twine, which are tied tight at a point two-thirds up and two-thirds down the length of the door, opposite the hinges. Along the other side of the trap is a funnel-shaped opening of netting, which grows narrower as it recedes into the trap.

The kitchen (the funnel-shaped netting), the parlor (the trap's second chamber), and the bedroom (the trap's false exit) are all parts of the freshwater lobster trap.

In the freshwater lobster trap are an employee ID card and an eggbound crawfish.

>x employee card
An employee ID card for Vermont Transit Authority, bearing a blurry ID photo and the name "Veeder, R."

>x eggbound
The eggbound crawfish is considerably smaller than the tragic, moldering specimen upon the bank - around six inches in length, but with antenna that resemble long curving tendrils, notably large for her size of body. She reposes in the trap's bedroom, occasionally skittering back and forth like an armor-plated insect.

The crawfish's swimmerets are laden with eggs the size and color of tinned peas. The eggs sway back and forth like grapes upon a vine, wafted by their mother to ensure their aeration.

>kill dying crawfish with rock
You raise the grimy rock high above your head and bring it crashing down upon the dying crawfish immediately splitting open its carapace revealing diseased creamy flesh the color of cooked chicken. Its eyestalks swivel wildly towards you and its periopods flicker like the eyelashes of a man trying desperately to awake from a nightmare.

You bring the rock down again and again, smashing rostrum and cephalothorax to shribbons until all that remains are fragments of shell, with a tail and two front claws emerging from a pulped mound of rotting flesh. The stench is intolerable.

While most of the shell of the dead crawfish is riven into tiny pieces, one especially sharp looking shard stands out from the rest.

>take shard
You pluck the shard from the fishy mulch, being careful not to cut yourself.

>x it
An especially sharp and vicious looking shard of shattered crawfish carapace.

>cut twine with shard
(the thin loops of twine with the shard of shattered carapace)
You cut through the twine with the sharp edge of the shard of the crawldad's shell. With the twine no longer securing the door of the trap, it swings open.

>take employee card
Taken.

>x coffee
The clouds in your cup form -- weird, they've entirely dissipated. Lack of a symbolic image means that you have accomplished everything you must in your current environment and should move on to find new challenges in order to grow as a person.

>put soggy tome in bp
You unzip the book pocket, deposit the soggy tome, then zip the book pocket back up again.

>put employee card in mp
You put the employee ID card into the Jansport backpack.

>put rock, pole, shard in tp
grimy rock: You unzip the trash pocket, deposit the grimy rock, then zip the trash pocket back up again.
long hooked pole: You unzip the trash pocket, deposit the long hooked pole, then zip the trash pocket back up again.
shard of shattered carapace: You unzip the trash pocket, deposit the shard of shattered carapace, then zip the trash pocket back up again.

>north

Under the Bridge (Tenth)
The path along the river gives way to a crumbling stone embankment as it passes below the arch of the old stone bridge. A rusty metal hatch is set into the ground opposite from the river, and towards the end of the embankment, a derelict payphone squats, forgotten, under the shadow of the bridge. To the south, the path continues to follow the river.

>x bridge
A once proud part of Backwater's infrastructure, now crumbling into ruin. The decorative carvings along the sides have worn away to faint impressions, and much of the underside has been patched with lighter-colored concrete.

>x river
The river splashes fitfully against the crumbling stone of the embankment, dark and murky in the shadows. The wrinkled surface of the water yields a rough reflection, an animated expressionist painting of the bridge and sky above.

Your eyes are drawn to a dark shape, silhouetted against the sky - While indistinct in in the reflection, it resembles a figure leaning over the railing of the bridge...

>x figure
You're not sure what you thought you saw in the reflection; A figure, almost like a woman in an old-fashioned hat? But looking up at the bridge, there doesn't seem to be a person or... anything, really, along the edge of the railing.

>x hatch
The humidity of the river has rusted the hatch to the color of dried blood, like an old scab on the embankment. Seemingly of the same vintage as the bridge, it lacks any modern logo, markings, or even a handle, though there is an odd rectangular indentation along one edge.

>x indentation
The indentation in the hatch is a little over an inch long, about half as wide, and seems too shallow to make a good handle, even if it didn't look like a jagged-edged tetanus-shot-waiting-to-happen... Which, for the record, it does.

>x payphone
The payphone has been vandalized exhaustively over the years; The shelter is covered in graffiti, while the phone itself has been scratched, stained, spraypainted, and used as an ashtray, among other things. While there is a grievous wound where a large piece of the phone was torn out, there is still a coin slot in the upper right, a keypad in the center, next to the receiver, and a coin return in the lower right; Probably about as much of a phone as necessary to place a call.

But you find yourself strangely reluctant to touch it, as if you would be disturbing a grave, or a shrine to some nameless Backwater god...

>read graffiti
There's no obvious place to start reading; Every inch of the panels are inlaid with high school scrimshaw, but your eyes are initially drawn to a cartoon dagger (or acorn? green pepper?) and the inscription "I don't ever wanna feel, like I did that day..."

>again
You've already lost track of where you started, and find yourself looking at the phrase "Black Number ONE", surrounded by tiny skulls and... hearts?

>again
Adrift on a sea of outsider folk art, you briefly lock eyes with "LISA LOEB IS A HACK", and a careless scribble you'd politely describe as "genitals".

>again
Your eyes struggle to find purchase on the maze of scribbles, briefly settling on "For a good time CALL 911"... Sheesh. it doesn't really work as a prank, or a joke..

>again
Maybe scrimshaw was the wrong metaphor... It's more like the phone went to prison and got all inked up with jailhouse tattoos, such as the letters "AC", an angry looking lightning bolt, and "DC".

>again
It's like a message board for bored teens; You'd almost say "a fire hydrant for stray dogs", but that seems cruel, even given "PEARL JAM", followed by "Jeremy!" (crossed out), "Black?" (also struck out), and finally, "EVENFLOW" (underlined repeatedly for emphasis).

>again
It doesn't seem like there's a whole thesis here, but... at least an anthropology paper? You try to focus, finding yourself looking at "WINONA FOREVER", of which the "NA" has been cleverly scribbled over.

>again
If you've learned one thing from this phone, it's to not hang out under a bridge with a bunch of miscreants. That's how you end up inscribed with an enthusiastic but flawed "ASE OF BASE" logo inside a jagged polygon.

>again
You must have read everything... Or so you thought, but then you find a whole extra column of scribbles, starting with the phrase "BADMOTORFINGER", presented boldly and without comment.

>again
Trying to make sense of a knot of graffiti, you follow a trail of scribbled stars to the number 258-0987, flanked by loosely drawn stars.

>x coin return
A narrow, grimy metal flap, stamped with the words PUSH FOR COIN, protecting the small chamber where your change should end up after making a call (though you have your doubts, given the condition of the phone).

>x coin slot
Set into a slightly rounded recess in the phone's faceplate is a thin slot, about the height of a quarter, labeled "5-10-25" and "US COINS ONLY".

>x receiver
An old, battered black plastic handset, connected to the phone by a segmented metal cable that reminds you of a rat's tail. It is hanging from a metal lever, the unfortunately named "cradle", like an unpleasant piece of meat on a hook.

>x keypad
A fairly standard telephone keypad. The buttons, once silver, and now more of a muted, nicotine-stained gray, include the first nine digits, in rows of three, followed by a final row containing the star, zero, and pound keys:
 1 2 3
 4 5 6
 7 8 9
 * 0 #

Twelve silver keys - Wasn't that an Elizabethan-era occult thing? Something to do with John Dee, Enochian angels, and other nonsense...

>push coin return
You press on the coin return with your finger, meeting some resistance, but it finally swings inwards with a soft crunch. Something dry and hard tumbles under your fingertip (it's not a tooth, why the hell would there be a tooth...) but as you jerk away your hand in revulsion, you also manage to fling an old quarter into your palm.

>x quarter
An ancient, discolored, battle-scarred US quarter, still proudly worth 25 cents. While the tail features a bald eagle, the George Washington profile on the head side has been... damaged.

>put quarter in coin slot
The phone swallows the coin, jingling in satisfaction. There is a buzzing and rattling deep inside, before a faint hiss of static becomes audible from the receiver.
>take receiver
You lift the receiver off the cradle, trying to not to think too much about the associations of that word.

>dial 911
There is an odd squawk of static on the line, followed by a few seconds of quiet hissing, before a distorted male voice begins to crackle through the speaker. It's... hard to make out, with gaps of silence and bursts of static, but you're fairly certain it's telling you that Emergency Services are not currently available on this exchange, and to try your call again shortly... Or that "the throne of heaven sits empty?" Something like that.

>hang up
(the phone receiver)
You put the phone back where you found it, and hope it stays there.

There is a solemn clunk from the heart of the phone, and something clatters to (an upsettingly crunchy) stop inside the coin return.

>x coin return
A narrow, grimy metal flap, stamped with the words PUSH FOR COIN, protecting the small chamber where your change should end up after making a call (though you have your doubts, given the condition of the phone).

>push return
You take a deep breath, and gingerly poke the coin return with your finger, deftly scooping out the quarter without touching... anything else.

>put quarter in slot
The coin clatters down into the depths of the machine. Deep inside, something rattles into place, and the receiver begins to hiss softly with static.
>take receiver
You reach towards the phone, as you would towards a spider that seems almost certaintly dead, but might not be, before finally taking it - You bring it up to the side of your head in much the same way.

>dial 258-0987
As you dial the number, pressing the buttons down the middle row, and then across the next-to-last row, from left to right, you realize that you have made the sign of the cross on the keypad... But upside-down and backwards.

It's pretty typical high-school occult bullshit, but before you can roll your eyes, the phone buzzes to life, and, as if from a great distance, you begin to hear ringing on the other end of the line.

The ring repeats three times, and then stops, leaving you in an ominous silence. Even the restless sound of the river behind you has stopped, and you are suddenly conscious of how, facing the payphone, you've turned your back on the water.

>x river
The surface of the river has become completely still, like a mirror; You feel as though you could fall through it, into the blue sky beyond the bridge...

The bridge in the reflection is sound and whole, new as the day it was built, and instead of rotting patches of concrete, the underside is covered in a colorful painted mural. Roughly oval in shape, it features a vivid green, eel-like creature with a wavy frill, curled around as though ready to bite its own tail. You don't totally follow the motto encircling it... Something about the commission of an officer? Or an office? But the words "Croceate" and "Variegated Court" stand out.

You tear your eyes away from the mural, to the railing of the bridge, as a woman leans over the edge, wearing an old-fashioned hat...

"VAAAAAAA!" shrieks the phone, causing you to jump and almost drop the receiver, "DIIIIIIIIIGH..."

You frantically slam the phone back down into the cradle, out of sheer panic, and there is a loud splash behind you.

>again
The surface of the river is white with foam, and splashes violently against the embankment, as though something large had just dove under the surface...

>again
The river splashes fitfully against the crumbling stone of the embankment, dark and murky in the shadows. The wrinkled surface of the water yields a rough reflection, an animated expressionist painting of the bridge and sky above, except for where a trail of bubbles mars the view, as though something... large... had recently swum past.

The bridge in the reflection is sound and whole, new as the day it was built, and instead of rotting patches of concrete, the underside is covered in a colorful painted mural. Roughly oval in shape, it features a vivid green, eel-like creature with a wavy frill, curled around as though ready to bite its own tail. You don't totally follow the motto encircling it... Something about the commission of an officer? Or an office? But the words "Croceate" and "Variegated Court" stand out.

>x coffee
The swirls in your cup form a sailboat. Modes of transportation mean that your current environment presents challenges that can only be overcome by seeking fresh perspectives elsewhere until you're ready to return.

>south

River Walk (Adam Whybray)
A dirt path along the west bank of the Makaskuta - or Blackgourd - River. The air is motionless and sweltry, the urticariate heat drawing sweat profusely from your prickling glands.

Just below you, to your side, the river burbles in vainglorious stupor, foaming in bright patches from the surfacants released from the rotting deposits of the red maples and poplars that line its banks. A single black ash, denuded of leaves, its corky bark blighted with the telltale signs of parasitic infection, quietly interrupts the Autumnal foliage of its deciduous cousins.

The river's waters slith over rocks as lustrous-gray as seal skin, rending them freshly burnished for the mid-September sun, which casts Her rays in refulgent slats through the rust-honey colored trees. It is though Nature, in celebration of Her own fecundity, has chosen to offer Herself up in Equinoxical sacrifice - the rocks laid out before the blazing altar of the sun.

There is a forbidding sign on the bank of the river.

The way up to Backwater town square is northwest. Following the path north leads under the bridge.

On the Makaskuta river is a buoy.

You can also see a shattered crawfish and a freshwater lobster trap (in which is an eggbound crawfish) here.

A noncorporeal trolley stop sign reads Aqua Line -- River Walk.

>x schedule
It's unlike any public transit schedule you've ever seen, in that there are no times listed. A cheerfully phrased block of introduction text instructs riders to hang their passes around their necks, proceed to a trolley stop, and WAIT FOR whatever color LINE corresponds with their choice of destination.

Destinations:
Brown Line -- Train Station
Gold Line -- Church
Blue Line -- Library Square
Aqua Line -- River Walk
Green Line -- The Woods


>wait for brown line
You lean against the forbidding sign, hold out your pass, and wait for the brown line. Within moments, a mistlike trolley arrives. Instead of stopping and allowing you to board, it passes through you, and you find yourself transported to

Railway Platform (Naomi Hinchen)
The platform is open to the outdoors, but has an overhanging roof with a rusted sign hanging from it. At the back of the platform, to the south, is the entrance to the lobby. Train tracks stretch off into the distance to the east and west; on the other side of the track is a graffitied brick wall.

The clock overhead gives the time as 1:33 am; beneath the clock is a schedule board listing train arrival times. On the platform itself are a wooden bench, a storage locker, and a vending machine.

An insubstantial trolley stop sign reads Brown Line -- Train Station.

Thunder rumbles in the distance.

>unlock locker with employee card
(first taking the employee ID card)
The card swiper flashes a green light, and the door of the locker swings open. Inside you can see a suitcase.

A leak in the ceiling drips water into a puddle.

>put employee card in tp
You unzip the trash pocket, deposit the employee ID card, then zip the trash pocket back up again.

The wind blows stray leaves across the tracks.

>take suitcase
Taken.

>x it
A plain brown leather suitcase. You would recognize it as your husband's even without the monogrammed initials P.C. on the side. It has a four-digit combination lock set to 0000.

>read inscription
On the back of the watch is engraved
N + P
March 19th

A leak in the ceiling drips water into a puddle.

>set lock to 0319
The lock clicks open.

You step in an old wad of gum. Yuck.

>put watch in tp
You unzip the trash pocket, deposit the familiar gold wristwatch, then zip the trash pocket back up again.

>open suitcase
You open the suitcase, revealing a mysterious silver box.

>x box
A smooth, solid silver box. It rattles when shaken, but has no visible hinges, latch, or any other way to open it. On the top is an embossed image of a train.

>take box
Taken.

>put suitcase in tp
You unzip the trash pocket, deposit the suitcase, then zip the trash pocket back up again.

>x schedule board
The board lists a schedule of train times:
Providence     CANCELLED
Dunwich        CANCELLED
Innsmouth      CANCELLED
Anchorhead     13:37
Arkham         CANCELLED

Thunder rumbles in the distance.

The clock gives a deep, booming chime on the quarter hour.

>stand on bench
You get onto the bench.

You step in an old wad of gum. Yuck.

>put winding key in clock
The winding key fits neatly into the hole, ready to be turned.

>set clock to 13:37
The clock is now set to 1:37 pm.
You blink at the sudden light--has the sun just come up? Hard to tell with the cloud cover, but it seems suddenly much lighter.

An old-fashioned steam locomotive comes hurtling down the tracks from the west. It appears translucent, almost insubstantial, but the rush of wind and noise created by its passage fills the station: the clatter of the wheels, the chugging of the engine, the clanging of the bell, and the mournful blowing of the whistle. It whooshes through the station without stopping, and then is gone as swiftly as it appeared. In the sudden silence, you look down the tracks to the east, but can see no sign of it.

The top of the mysterious silver box slides open, revealing a bronze coin.

You shiver for no reason at all, as if someone has just walked over your grave.

>put winding key in kp
You unzip the key pocket, deposit the brass winding key, then zip the key pocket back up again.

>stand
You get off the bench.

>x coin
A tarnished circle of bronze. The heads side depicts a misshapen figure with what look like tentacles. The tails side has a strange glyph which seems to shift as you look at it, but looks almost like an R fused with a V. Or maybe a J fused with a P? No, it's definitely an R fused with a V.

>take coin
Taken.

You step in an old wad of gum. Yuck.

>put box in tp
You unzip the trash pocket, deposit the mysterious silver box, then zip the trash pocket back up again.

A leak in the ceiling drips water into a puddle.

>put coin in coin slot
The coin drops into the slot with a clunk. A plastic bubble falls into the chute.

>take bubble
Taken.

A garbled message plays over the PA system, in which the only understandable word is "blood".

>open bubble
You open the plastic bubble.

The clock gives a deep, booming chime on the quarter hour.

>take eyepiece
Taken.

You shiver for no reason at all, as if someone has just walked over your grave.

>put bubble in tp
You unzip the trash pocket, deposit the plastic bubble, then zip the trash pocket back up again.

>x eyepiece
A misshapen golden disc, studded with lenses. It looks like it could fit flush with your eye socket. On its surfaces are a round button, a triangular button, and a small rectangular slot.

The golden eyepiece is currently switched off.

A low hum comes from the PA system, growing slowly louder until it crescendoes in a screech and falls suddenly silent.

>wear it
You try holding it up to your eye, but it just falls off. Perhaps there are additional steps.

>put rectangular battery in eyepiece
The battery fits perfectly into the slot in the device, its end now flush with the surface.

>push round button
The device emits a high-pitched whine.

>push triangular button
There is a high-frequency whine, and a thread of light is emitted from one of the lenses of the device. It ignores all conventional laws of nature as far as you are aware, twisting and swirling in complex patterns until fading off only inches from the lens.

>wear eyepiece
There's a sudden pinching sensation as the device clamps onto your face. Panicked, you struggle to remove it, but it won't budge. You feel a long needle pierce your eye, and then nothing. Your vision is normal once more - better than normal, even. Previously mundane surfaces now shimmer with possibility.

>wait for green line
You sit on the bench, hold out your pass, and wait for the green line. Within moments, a noncorporeal trolley arrives. Instead of stopping and allowing you to board, it passes through you, and you find yourself transported to

The Old Well (Reed Lockwood)
The trees here gather, black with wet; glimmering fingers hung with ragged matter, huddling beneath a cold and gently weeping sky. Beneath your feet, the damp red felt of rotting leaves slopes down toward a still, murky puddle. Nearby is a well, capped off with crumbling cement. A broken-down section of brick wall waits for raindrops to fall along its spine, and an old, half-dead oak straddles an angular boulder studded with quartz. A path through the forest leads south.

You can see a wooden sigil here.

A mistlike trolley stop sign reads Green Line -- The Woods.

>x puddle
Kneeling to examine the puddle, you witness a violent sea, plumed with frothing foam. Below the surface, the shadows of sea-life, cresting and rolling their smooth gray bodies.

You can see the wooden arch, the teal arch, the violet arch and the sky blue arch here.

>x wooden arch
A wooden archway carved with eldritch symbols. It is located in the roiling ocean.

>x teal arch
The teal arch stands in the roiling ocean. Through it, you can see glimpses of a blessed forest.

A teal arch.

(You can see all arches discovered so far by typing "x arches".)
>x violet arch
The violet arch stands in the roiling ocean. Through it, you can see glimpses of a howling labyrinth.

A violet arch.

(You can see all arches discovered so far by typing "x arches".)
>x sky blue arch
The sky blue arch stands in the roiling ocean. Through it, you can see glimpses of a languid plain.

A sky blue arch.

>enter wooden arch
You can't manipulate something that small with your bare hands. Try prodding it with the laser on your eyepiece.

>prod wooden arch
An ominous humming fills the clearing, but nothing happens.

("p" can be used as an abbreviation for "prod")
>x brick
Your vision zooms in on the crumbling bricks to reveal a howling maze of rust-red crevices, between which swoop screeching black eagles. The red rock is perforated by innumerable cavities in which dwell scurrying insects.

You can see the wooden arch, the marigold arch, the violet arch and the pink arch here.

>x marigold arch
The marigold arch stands in the howling labyrinth. Through it, you can see glimpses of a blessed forest.

A marigold arch.

>x pink arch
The pink arch stands in the howling labyrinth. Through it, you can see glimpses of a languid plain.

A pink arch.

>x quartz
Leaning in close to the patch of quartz, your vision swirls. Visions of a strange, microscopic world appear: A shallow pool of aquamarine fluid sits within a vast white desert woven with lavender capillaries, a soft network of exotic flora. Beside the crater, a chrome-plated, cylindrical machine protrudes from the ground.

You can see the wooden arch, the mint green arch, the pink arch and the sky blue arch here.

>x mint green arch
The mint green arch stands in the languid plain. Through it, you can see glimpses of a blessed forest.

A mint green arch.

>x machine
A chrome plated cylinder, studded with rivets. A chute extends from one side, toward the aquamarine pool. It is located in the languid plain.

>x fluid
The calm pool of aquamarine fluid is in the languid plain.

You see nothing special about the calm pool of aquamarine fluid.

>x root
Peering at the twisted root, your vision distorts, distorts again. Suddenly you see as a forest of gray fungus over rich, piled soil. Strange little bipeds clamber among the stalks, pale with bulbous heads.

You can see the wooden arch, the marigold arch, the teal arch and the mint green arch here.

>x arches
Arches found so far:

wooden arch ----> wooden sigil
marigold arch: howling labyrinth <---> blessed forest
teal arch: roiling ocean <---> blessed forest
mint green arch: languid plain <---> blessed forest
pink arch: languid plain <---> howling labyrinth
sky blue arch: languid plain <---> roiling ocean
violet arch: roiling ocean <---> howling labyrinth
>open bp
You open the book pocket, revealing a soggy tome, a book list, The Modern Girl's Divination Handbook -- Volume Three, The Dollmaker's Journal, a moldy, waterlogged journal, a shabby journal and Twin Hearts Between the Planes.

>read moldy journal
(first taking the moldy, waterlogged journal)
You riffle through the pages; only short passages are still legible:

"... circular golden prosthesis seems to have chosen Mabel ... doctor said he can't remove it without harming the child ..."

"... Mabel spends long hours examining stumps and rocks in the woods ... and I are most concerned. Mabel's stories of fairies and HIDDEN LANDS seem more than childish fancy"

(There's a long section of the book here which is ruined and entirely illegible, although you can make out diagrams and the faded, troubling outlines of strange shapes)

"... constructed the sigil out of sculpted and varnished wood after many ... Mabel instructs me on where it should be placed ... spirits she is in communication with have constructed various devices at her command ... creatures I have dubbed microphids ... "

"... Clara still doesn't believe; threatened to get Pastor Crowell involved ... able to dodge him so far ... quit my position at ..."

"... very concerned but there is no body ... up to seven successful SUMMONINGS that have remained docile ... we will never know, and quite frankly these studies are more important than that ... Each creature must process through three ARCHES, through three HABITATS and stages of development before finally maturing through the ARCH and SIGIL ... special GLUE created by that one created via the sequence ->FOREST->(illegible)->CLIFFS ..."

"... at Clara's insistence I have written to the University ... fake name ... one we have dubbed Moppy is friendly enough and a loyal companion to Mabel ..."

"... siphoning off the rest of the inheritance ... haven't seen her in a while ... sent an officer of the law to fetch Mabel, but Moppy took care of him ..."

(another long damaged section)

"... only Tall Pete is left ... lay Mabel in a grave beside Moppy ... TERRIBLE LIZARD-BIRD was raised up from the OCEAN - is still out there somewhere ..."

"... now I wear the PROSTHESIS; now I can see everything. ... breached the walls of perception ... I am PRODDING the EGG MACHINE on the QUARTZ OUTCROPPING ... dozens of them GATHER to PROTECT me from the LIZARD BIRD ... PULLED the ROOF clear off my SHELTER ..."

 And that's it. There's no more. Well, you suppose you didn't actually expect the author to keep writing right up until the point of his death, but you're a little disappointed.

>put it in bp
You put the moldy, waterlogged journal into the book pocket.

>close bp
You close the book pocket.

>prod machine
The chrome-plated machine shivers and lurches, and an egg trundles down its chute and splashes into the aquamarine pool below. The shell breaks apart, the pieces rapidly dissolving, leaving behind only a small, translucent blob.

("p" can be used as an abbreviation for "prod")
>x blob
A nascent, translucent blob of flesh rolls and shivers on the surface of the aquamarine pool. It is located in the languid plain.

>prod blob
The tiny blob shrivels up and dies in the heat of the beam.

>prod machine
The chrome-plated machine shivers and lurches, and an egg trundles down its chute and splashes into the aquamarine pool below. The shell breaks apart, the pieces rapidly dissolving, leaving behind only a small, translucent blob.

>prod mint
The tiny blob wriggles up onto dry land and passes beneath the mint green arch. It disappears from the languid plain.
The tiny blob emerges in the blessed forest and transforms into a small quadruped.

>prod teal
The creature saunters through the teal arch. It disappears from the blessed forest.
The small quadruped emerges in the roiling ocean and transforms into a bumpy whale.

>prod violet
The whale dives to the violet arch. It disappears from the roiling ocean.
The bumpy whale emerges in the howling labyrinth and transforms into a armored climber.

>prod wooden
(the wooden sigil)
The air above the sigil crackles with energy.

A great, armor-plated monster trundles forth from the sigil and off into the forest with hardly a backwards glance.

(For future reference, you can use the command "birth" to lay another egg; "forest", "plain", "cliffs", and "ocean" to switch the creature between microcosms you've discovered; and "summon" to summon a mature creature into the sigil.)
>birth
The chrome-plated machine shivers and lurches, and an egg trundles down its chute and splashes into the aquamarine pool below. The shell breaks apart, the pieces rapidly dissolving, leaving behind only a small, translucent blob.

>forest
The tiny blob wriggles up onto dry land and passes beneath the mint green arch. It disappears from the languid plain.
The tiny blob emerges in the blessed forest and transforms into a small quadruped.

>plain
The creature saunters through the mint green arch. It disappears from the blessed forest.
The small quadruped emerges in the languid plain and transforms into a glassy horse.

>cliffs
This horse gallops gaily toward the pink arch. It disappears from the languid plain.
The glassy horse emerges in the howling labyrinth and transforms into a slime ape.

>summon
The air above the sigil crackles with energy.

The cycloptic ape extends its arms over the edge of the sigil, heaving itself into your pathetic material world, dripping gobs of sticky slime across the forest floor. It leaps atop the clearing and onto the well cap. It turns and catches you in its monocular gaze. An understanding passes between you. Maybe even - love? It turns again, bolting into the bushes.

"W-Wait," you say, but the moment has passed.

Only the creature's sticky goo is left behind on the well.

>x well
An old well cap made of crumbling cement emerges from the forest floor here. Two wrought-iron handles, pitted with rust, emerge from the top. A padlock, also rusted, holds it closed. The entire thing is covered in sticky goo.

>birth. cliffs. ocean. forest. summon. x worm
The chrome-plated machine shivers and lurches, and an egg trundles down its chute and splashes into the aquamarine pool below. The shell breaks apart, the pieces rapidly dissolving, leaving behind only a small, translucent blob.

The tiny blob wriggles up onto dry land and passes beneath the pink arch. It disappears from the languid plain.
The tiny blob emerges in the howling labyrinth and transforms into a wriggling worm.

The little worm squirms its way into the violet arch. It disappears from the howling labyrinth.
The wriggling worm emerges in the roiling ocean and transforms into a sinuous ribbon.

The creature swims toward the teal arch. It disappears from the roiling ocean.
The sinuous ribbon emerges in the blessed forest and transforms into a hallucinogenic worm.

The air above the sigil crackles with energy.

The great and colorful flatworm wriggles forth from the sigil.

A brightly colored flatworm, adoned in purples and golds.

>birth. cliffs. plains. forest. summon. x snake
The chrome-plated machine shivers and lurches, and an egg trundles down its chute and splashes into the aquamarine pool below. The shell breaks apart, the pieces rapidly dissolving, leaving behind only a small, translucent blob.

The tiny blob wriggles up onto dry land and passes beneath the pink arch. It disappears from the languid plain.
The tiny blob emerges in the howling labyrinth and transforms into a wriggling worm.

The little worm squirms its way into the pink arch. It disappears from the howling labyrinth.
The wriggling worm emerges in the languid plain and transforms into a somnambulant snake.

The creature inches its way lazily toward the mint green arch. It disappears from the languid plain.
The somnambulant snake emerges in the blessed forest and transforms into a comfy snake.

The air above the sigil crackles with energy.

The padded snake slithers from the sigil.
 It joins the hallucinogenic worm, falling asleep among the leaves.

This large, soft snake is covered with cushions of flesh. It dozes peacefully here.

>birth. ocean. cliffs. forest. summon. x octopus
The chrome-plated machine shivers and lurches, and an egg trundles down its chute and splashes into the aquamarine pool below. The shell breaks apart, the pieces rapidly dissolving, leaving behind only a small, translucent blob.

The tiny blob wriggles up onto dry land and passes beneath the sky blue arch. It disappears from the languid plain.
The tiny blob emerges in the roiling ocean and transforms into a slightly more robust blob.

The blob sinks beneath the surface of the waves, presumably to find the violet arch. It disappears from the roiling ocean.
The slightly more robust blob emerges in the howling labyrinth and transforms into a gas-belching sphere.

The creature descends toward the marigold arch. It disappears from the howling labyrinth.
The gas-belching sphere emerges in the blessed forest and transforms into a perfumed land octopus.

The air above the sigil crackles with energy.

The colorful, tentacled creature appears on top of the sigil. It is quite happy to see you!
 It joins comfy snake and hallucinogenic worm.

This brightly patterned octopoid flops about with the other creatures here. It emits pleasing scents from the ends of its tentacles.

>birth. forest. cliffs. ocean. summon
The chrome-plated machine shivers and lurches, and an egg trundles down its chute and splashes into the aquamarine pool below. The shell breaks apart, the pieces rapidly dissolving, leaving behind only a small, translucent blob.

The tiny blob wriggles up onto dry land and passes beneath the mint green arch. It disappears from the languid plain.
The tiny blob emerges in the blessed forest and transforms into a small quadruped.

The creature saunters through the marigold arch. It disappears from the blessed forest.
The small quadruped emerges in the howling labyrinth and transforms into a winged scavenger.

The creature flaps toward the violet arch. It disappears from the howling labyrinth.
The winged scavenger emerges in the roiling ocean and transforms into a fearsome pteranodon.

The air above the sigil crackles with energy.

A fearsome pteranodon emerges and perches on the handles of the well-cap. It screeches at the other monsters, but they band together to defend themselves. Defeated, it attempts to fly off, but its feet are stuck fast to the well-cap. It screeches and shrieks, flapping its colossal wings, sending clots of leaves and muddy droplets spiraling into the air. At last, the cement cracks, and the top of the well breaks off in the creatures claws as it soars higher and higher. Only the open top of the well remains.

In the chaos, a piece of debris must have hit the golden device, for now it the eyepiece shows only black. With a whine, it falls from your face, sputtering acrid green smoke.

>take eyepiece. x it. put it in tp
Taken.

A misshapen golden disc, studded with lenses. It is cracked and misshapen now. On its surfaces are a round button, a triangular button, and a small rectangular slot.

The golden eyepiece is currently switched off.

You unzip the trash pocket, deposit the golden eyepiece, then zip the trash pocket back up again.

>x coffee
The swirls in your cup form a gentle ripple. Lack of a symbolic image means that you have accomplished everything you must in your current environment and should move on to find new challenges in order to grow as a person.

>down

Circular Room (JP)
You walk into a circular, high-ceilinged room made of roughly-shaped gray stones. This room really looks like a capped well, but its location in the building suggests otherwise.

There appears to be a small wad of cash just inside the sunken area.

>x cash
It smells a little musty and is deeply creased into an almost solid lump.

>x stones
The irregular grey stones that comprise the circular room have a satiny sheen, appearing almost wet. Their color is soft and quiet; visions of pre-dawn fog in the harbor, spilling out from a river's mouth. The room itself looks like it spans about 30 feet, and its floor has a wide, round depression in the middle, rather resembling the resting place for a teacup.

>take cash. put cash in mp
Taken.

You put the wad of cash into the Jansport backpack.

>x coffee
The clouds in your cup form -- weird, they've entirely dissipated. Lack of a symbolic image means that you have accomplished everything you must in your current environment and should move on to find new challenges in order to grow as a person.

>up

The Old Well (Reed Lockwood)
The trees here gather, black with wet; glimmering fingers hung with ragged matter, huddling beneath a cold and gently weeping sky. Beneath your feet, the damp red felt of rotting leaves slopes down toward a still, murky puddle. Nearby is a well, a ragged, gaping hole in the earth. A broken-down section of brick wall waits for raindrops to fall along its spine, and an old, half-dead oak straddles an angular boulder studded with quartz. A path through the forest leads south.

You can see a perfumed land octopus, a comfy snake, a hallucinogenic worm and a wooden sigil here.

A ghostly trolley stop sign reads Green Line -- The Woods.

>wait for blue line
You lean against the old, crumbling well cap, hold out your pass, and wait for the blue line. Within moments, a spectral trolley arrives. Instead of stopping and allowing you to board, it passes through you, and you find yourself transported to

Outside the Library (Gavin Inglis)
A short street terminates here. To the south it opens into the town square. To the east, a few worn steps rise to the entrance of the public library, and to the west you can see a real estate office. A gloomy path leads northwest, towards the woods.

You can see a notice board here.

An insubstantial trolley stop sign reads Blue Line -- Library Square.

>south

Town square, Backwater, VT (Marco Innocenti)
The large, hexagonal-shaped square is paved with big, white stones, polished by rain and wind over the decades; around it, low red-brick buildings look like watching peasants. One single street leaves the square to the north, while less accommodating paths lead west, in the direction of a towering church, and southwest.
Due east, an iron bridge crosses the river, and southeast, a walkway leads down to its bank.

The swollen, slate-colored clouds that blanket the sky are reflected in the shiny, circular shape embellishing the center of the square, muttering ominous portents amongst themselves.

A man is leaning on the bridge rail, staring intensely at you with his only eye.

>east
Your feet finally touch down on some blackened shore and into some large subterrane. The slick black stone of the cavern arcs high above your head with strange formations that grow downwards and then out in oddly perpendicular angles. The damp rock moves in and out of focus as some pulsing green light illuminates the space.

Taking a step, you feel the sand pulling at your shoes as though it were thick mud or quicksand. Your feet sink with every step, settling on some solid stone platform just beneath this layer of cloying sand that prevents you from being entirely swallowed.

You pass between two monolithic pillars: oily green-black stone of a height that makes you dizzy to comprehend. Between them, a skeletal bridge stretches out across the chasm.

The crossing spans a ravine of tumultuous water that roars like some uncaged beast and echoes around the cavern. Its Stygian call chills you and draws you in by equal measures as you take the first step onto the slats that form the bridge.

Bridge (Daniel Stelzer and Jemma Briggeman)
You are standing on a bridge spanning east to west in the middle of an echoing cavern. In the center of the bridge is a large cancerous sculpture constructed of pipes that climb up to a cauldron filled with an eerily glowing green moss, the only light source in the room. Beneath your feet you can hear the crashing of the river below. Ahead of you, to your horror, there are slats missing on the bridge - you'll never make it across without replacing them.


What appears to be a rope is tied around one of the beams of the bridge. A ragged knot ties the other end to some misshapen piece of polished, almost pristine, metal while the rest of the rope is coiled neatly on the planks.

>