spawn ./frob --no-colors --no-seed-rand --no-scrolling --interface=plain --no-pause cain.t3
  


                 And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his offering:
                 But unto Cain and to his offering He had not respect.
                                 -Genesis 4:4-5, King James Version


                 Then ALLAH sent a crow searching in the ground
                 to show [Cain] how to hide the disgrace of his brother.
                                 -Quran 5:31, Sahih International


                 "From this time forth...thou shalt be called Perdition."
                                 -Moses 5:24, Pearl of Great Price


                 And Cain said unto the LORD,
                 "My punishment is greater than I can bear..."
                                 -Genesis 4:13 KJV



                 According to Cain
                 An inquiry
                 by Jim Nelson
                

[Press any key to continue...]  





THE PROVOST TOPS off your brandy and invites you to sit.  "The question has
bedeviled the Academy's Scholastics since this institution was founded," he
says with a weary sigh.  "What is the Mark of Cain?"

The Provost is a gray man, whiskered and immobile.  He administers the Academy
from his padded chair--ratty blanket thrown over his lap--by scratching
messages on parchment and throwing them out the window to his secretaries in
the courtyard below.

"The Academy has already sent two of our best," he says.  "They failed to
return.  We consider them lost.  You must do better."

You, a novitiate Indagator, investigate for the Academy all manner of
esoterica.  Usually the questions revolve around the finer points of philosophy
and science debated by the Scholastics.  This riddle, though--the Mark of
Cain--is monumental.  It is the oldest mystery in known history.

The Provost breaks the silence with a deep and gravelly voice.  "Indagator, you
are charged with resolving this ancient question.  Stand and prepare yourself!"

Summoning all his powers, he claps his hands--and in an instant, you are sent
back in time...to the beginning...

[Press any key to continue...]  


I. A YOUNG EARTH

East of Eden
A fine hazy mist shrouds the sky, making the sun little more than a smeary
torch in a smoke-filled room.  The air is redolent with a sour aroma.  The
world feels fresh and new.

On your wrist is the orbis bracelet given to you by the Provost before you were
sent to this time.  You must not lose the bracelet; it's your only way back to
the Academy.

Before you, a circuitous path plunges eastward into the windswept wilderness.
It is this direction you will need to travel to begin your inquiry.

Behind you, to the distant west, lies Eden.

[Type ABOUT for more information on this game.]

>east
A tree
In a break from the rugged and stark terrain, a magnificent tree rises
alongside the path.  A crow descends from high above and alights upon its
lowest branch.

Nestled against the roots of the tree sits a leather rucksack.

In the rucksack you see some arsenic, some lymph, some black bile, some phlegm,
and some yellow bile.

The Academy has provided well.  This rucksack will you help you with your
inquiry.  As you travel, you should discover more of the tools you will require
to complete your inquiry and prepare your report for the Provost.

The way continues east.

>take rucksack
You heave up the weighty rucksack and sling it over your shoulder.

>look rucksack
This unique rucksack of tanned leather and stitching holds several secured
phials.  Once stored in it, liquids will not spill or mix while traveling.  In
the rucksack you see some arsenic, some lymph, some black bile, some phlegm,
and some yellow bile.

>east
As you travel, your thoughts wander to the plight of Adam and Eve, the first
humans created and parents of all Mankind.

They were brought forth in the paradise Eden.  They lived a life of pure ease,
only to be banished to the wilderness for a single weakness.  This path you
walk would have been the one they followed as they searched for a new home...

A Young Earth
Your journey brings you to the mouth of a turbulent valley and a terrible
sight: The valley walls and floor have broken open, allowing foul steam and
gases from the underworld to escape high into the air.

Here lies yet another provision from the Academy for your inquiry: On the
ground near the magma flow is a pulverulent cloth.

The way continues east and west.  Any travel south through the valley is
blocked by the magma flow.

>take cloth
You pick up the pulverulent cloth.

A great grumbling announces itself beneath the ground, and you find yourself
swaying about as though on a ship deck.  A moment later, the disturbance
ceases.

>look cloth
This pulverulent cloth is sewn for chemists and doctors to carry powders and
herbals.  It's woven to wick away moisture and keep its contents dry under
normal conditions.  Submerged, however, the powders will be ruined.

>east
Your thoughts return to the Provost's words in his quarters:

"Recall that Eve birthed two sons," the Provost told you.  "Cain, the eldest,
tilled the fields.  Younger brother Abel tended the flocks.  Until..." He
trails off.

"Cain murdered Abel," you said to complete his thought.

"The first murder in all of history.  As punishment, the Creator cursed Cain to
wander the Earth to the end of his days.  Cain was marked to prove he
introduced murder into our world.  The mark served to protect Cain from others
taking vengeance upon him."

"Why do that?  Why protect such evil?"

The Provost emitted a gravelly murmur.  "Vengeance was the Creator's."

Approaching the river
The steady rushing of a river comes from the east.  A turbulent valley of magma
and steam roils to the west.

Lying here is a thick tome bound in calf-skin.  It's the Pharmakon, a formulary
and another provision made by the Academy for your inquiry.

This book may be the most valuable possession they delivered for your work.

>take Pharmakon
With a grunt, you pick up the cumbersome and dusty tome.

>look Pharmakon
The Pharmakon is a formulary compiled over the ages, from the ancients to the
modern Scholastics of the Academy.  It's a massive, unwieldy reference of fine-
print, formulae, cross-references, and paper dust.

It's also a compendium of history, knowledge, insight: Wisdom earned and
expressed.

Entries are poorly organized, as the Pharmakon is revised continuously as
discoveries are made and old knowledge found undependable.

It's not intended to be read cover-to-cover.  Rather, it should be consulted by
topic.

While the formulary is organized in haphazard fashion, its initial entry is
worthy of your attention: First Principles.

[To use this resource, try CONSULT BOOK ABOUT FIRST PRINCIPLES or LOOK UP
INDAGATOR.]

>look Pharmakon
The Pharmakon is a formulary compiled over the ages, from the ancients to the
modern Scholastics of the Academy.  It's a massive, unwieldy reference of fine-
print, formulae, cross-references, and paper dust.

It's also a compendium of history, knowledge, insight: Wisdom earned and
expressed.

Entries are poorly organized, as the Pharmakon is revised continuously as
discoveries are made and old knowledge found undependable.

It's not intended to be read cover-to-cover.  Rather, it should be consulted by
topic.

The initial entry in the formulary is First Principles.

>look up First Principles
(the Pharmakon)
"First Principles" acts as a kind of introduction for this edition of the
Pharmakon.  It was penned by Hester IV of Minscip, an old cur and one of the
original Indagatores the Academy produced.  He was also your mentor, and a
trusted one at that.

He uses the opportunity of an introduction to produce a screed on the loose
ethics of your chosen profession:

"More than the what, the Indagator determines the why: the motivations; the
reasoning; the rationalizations; the madness.

"The greatest tool available to the investigator is combining essences to form
compounds, which unlock old memories, reveal hidden details, and even reshape
physical matter.  Researching the Pharmakon is vital to the success of your
inquiry!

"Good luck, Indagator," Hester IV of Minscip writes in his hasty but flowing
penmanship.  "TRUTH is our shared pursuit.  It is ignorance we fight, to light
the way toward a more complete understanding of our fellow man and woman!"

c.f., Indagator, essence

>look up Indagator
(the Pharmakon)
Indagator: The investigator; the observer; the questioner & the doubter.

An Indagator examines all, determines the significance, and forgets nothing.
MEMORIES and RECALL are two of your most important powers.

"SACRIFICE is--alas!--also a necessity of our chosen profession," Hester IV of
Minscip adds.

c.f., essence, alchemy, sacrifice

>memories
So far, you've gathered no historical revelations about your inquiry.

>look up essence
(the Pharmakon)
Essences are the backbone of the Indagator's compounds, and thereby his or her
inquiry.

While a constellation of essences exist for medicinal, soothsaying, and other
scientific pursuits, for the Indagator only three varieties are pertinent:

   * remedy
   * poison
   * excipient

Compounds are formed by applying two or more of these essences to an object or
a surface.  When the correct combination is applied, the mixture will trigger
the desired effect.

If the wrong compound is applied, the mixture will dissolve, leaving nothing
but a sense of waste.

c.f., remedy, poison, excipient

>look up alchemy
(the Pharmakon)
Alchemy is a broad and learned field, but the Indagator has only to be
acquainted with a handful of simple compounds for success in an inquiry.  Those
compounds are--

Here the ink on the page blurs and smudges, no doubt due to some careless
scribe spilling his tea on the page, or one of the Academy's absentminded
Scholastics shaving while poring over its secrets.  (Not that they shave that
often; once a year, perhaps, at most.)

When the blurred ink and scarred paper settles at the bottom of the page, only
this warning remains:

"Compounds may be applied for effect once and only once.  Subsequent attempts
will merely result in loss of the applied essences."

>look up sacrifice
(the Pharmakon)
Hester IV of Miscip writes:

"Sacrifice is the defining characteristic of the Indagator's excipient essence,
of which no other profession uses in quite the same manner or to the same
effect.

"Sacrifice is the defining characteristic of the Indagator as well, for every
inquiry requires sacrifice--in the name of TRUTH!  Onward!"

c.f., Indagator, Truth, excipient

>look up remedy
(the Pharmakon)
A remedy is a vital and promotive essence in compounds.

Remedies are blood, yellow bile, black bile, and phlegm.

It is no coincidence that all four remedies are also the Four Humours.
Understand the Four Humours, and you will understand the use of remedies and
poisons.

c.f., poison, excipient, Four Humours

>look up poison
(the Pharmakon)
A poison is a vital but countering essence in compounds.

Poisons are lymph, chamomile, arsenic, and sage.

c.f., remedy, excipient

Your training at the Academy informs you that you should concentrate on
completing your inquiry, not searching the Pharmakon round and round.

[Don't worry about learning everything the Pharmakon has to offer right away.
You'll have plenty of chances to consult it later.]

>look up excipient
(the Pharmakon)
An excipient is an essence sacrificed in a compound to hold together the remedy
and the poison, which, by their nature, are repelled.

Excipients are salt & sulfur; grease & ash; wax & royal jelly; and spirits &
mercury.

Hester IV of Minscip can't help but add in the margin: "Power lies not in the
remedy or the poison, but in the sacrifice!"

c.f., remedy, poison, sacrifice

>look up Truth
(the Pharmakon)
"The pursuit of TRUTH is the only footrace worth running," Hester IV of Minscip
writes.  "Do not block the way of inquiry!

"And that is all I have to say on the subject."

>look up Four Humours
(the Pharmakon)
The Four Humours represent the balancing fluids intrinsic to the human body.
Every living being contains all four; it is when the Humours are unbalanced
that one may overtake the others, leading to excessive behavior and damaging
thoughts.

The Four Humours are:

   * blood which makes one sanguine
   * yellow bile which makes one choleric
   * black bile which makes one melancholic
   * phlegm which makes one phlegmatic

Note that all four are remedies in the Indagator tool kit.

Hester IV of Minscip adds in the margin: "Early inquiries into Adam, Eve, Cain,
& Abel indicates each is associated with a different Humour.  Learning each
family member's Humour would be a tour de force for any Indagator!"

c.f., remedy, Three Primes

>look up Three Primes
(the Pharmakon)
The Three Primes (tria prima) represent the fullness of Life, the potential of
the human spirit, and the unity of Mankind.  The primes are located in salt,
sulfur, and mercury.

As all three are excipients, they are sacrificed when formulating compounds.
Their very nature represents the nature of the Indagator: SACRIFICE.

The significance of the Three Primes versus the balance of the Four Humours
have been hotly debated since the earliest stirrings of Scholasticism.

c.f., excipient, Four Humours, sacrifice

The scolding voice of Hester IV of Minscip rings out across your thoughts: "Do
not waste precious time lost in the pages of the Pharmakon!  Your inquiry
awaits!  ONWARD!"

>east
You recall the Provost throwing up his liver-spotted hands when you last spoke
to him:

"The historical record offers no clue to the form of Cain's rude mark!" he
said.  "Is it a scar on his face, or the color of his hair, or a horn sprouting
from his forehead?  To know this is to better understand the true nature of
evil, for Cain was Perdition itself!"

This is the question you must answer.  It is why you've been sent back to this
time, the beginning of mankind's existence on Earth.

Crossing
A roaring river of whitewater and coursing rapids terminates your path through
the wilderness.  A lean, frayed rope bridge crosses east to the opposite bank.
Otherwise, your only other path is west, the way you came.

With a showy beating of its wings, a crow swoops down and settles among the
topmost branches of a nearby eucalyptus.

Lying on the river's bank is an oversized vellum envelope with a prominent blue
seal.  You will need it to issue your final report to the Academy.

>take envelope
You take the envelope.  The stiffness of the vellum reminds you of the
Academy's formality.  You think of the elderly and wise Provost, of your
teacher Hester IV of Minscip, and of the steady purpose of the Academy's
Scholastics.  You do not want to let them down.

A crow high in the tree preens its feathers and shakes itself.

>look envelope
The envelope is of stiff vellum folded into shape and held fast with an
embossed seal.

The Provost expects you to break the seal when you're prepared to report your
findings to the Academy.

Choose your time wisely.  You are the final Indagator the Academy can afford to
send for this investigation.  Breaking the seal is tantamount to declaring your
inquiry is completed.

>east
Bearing some trepidation, you plant a foot on the rope bridge, then the other.
Your crossing begins with careful, mindful steps.

Three-quarters of the way across, your fears fade.  Perhaps your time at the
Academy among its soft scholars has left you suspicious of rural craftsmanship.
After all, you made it this far without--

Strands of the rope start unwinding beneath your feet.  You impulsively grapple
for the hand-hold, but it too buckles.  Madly you scramble to hold onto your
possessions as the rope gives way.  You tumble into the ice-cold river...

[Press any key to continue...]  


II. A FRAGILE EARTH

You're washed far downstream before you manage to grasp solid rock and pull
yourself from the river.  You trudge up the eastern bank drenched to the bone
and grouching about "rural craftsmanship."

After some time in the sun, your equipment and essences are dry and intact.
The frigid river has left you shivering uncontrollably, however.

Worse: You lost your orbis bracelet in the water.  Without it, you have no way
to return to the Academy.

You struggle to recall why you accepted this task from the Provost.  You
struggle equally to grasp why he would select you, a novitiate so green in the
science of investigation.  Perhaps after losing two Indagatores to the inquiry,
he found himself facing a dearth of volunteers.

Plain
You're standing on the edge of a flooded plain.  A stagnant pond fed by the
redirected river makes a murky mirror across the plain.  An irrigation ditch
controlled by a sluice gate leads to a distant field of wheat covering much of
the valley floor.

To the southeast is a winding footpath leading up an incline, while northeast
of here is a squat cave set in the side of the bank.

Far to the north, you make out a settlement around an enormous cedar tree.  The
way north is blocked by the pond.

>look gate
A sluice gate with a wood lever controls whether the river water can enter the
irrigation ditch.  The gate's closed, causing the swollen river to flood the
plain.

>se
A Fragile Earth
Peering down from atop an incline, you behold yet another awesome spectacle in
the distance: The earth ripped open and the underworld's molten rivers and
miasma escaping to the surface.  This young Earth suffers teething pains, and
its tantrum is most awful.

The narrow footpath continues down the hill into a chasm, or northwest back to
the sluice gate.

A deep blue gem strung on a loop of leather cord lies on the ground.  It's
another provision from the Academy.

>wear gem
(first taking the lumens gem)

You put the leather cord around your neck.  The lumens gem hangs at your
sternum.

The breeze carries up from the chasm below the stench of rotten eggs.

>down
Sulfur deposits
In this wide and arid chasm you spy the telltale yellow chalk of sulfur
spilling down the slope.

A winding path leads up out of the chasm.

>collect sulfur
You collect all the sulfur you can find, prepare it for use, and add it to the
pulverulent cloth.

You notice you're slightly warm, and feeling an unexpected soreness in your jaw
and neck muscles.  That dunk in the ice-cold river must have impaired your
constitution more than you first thought.

>up
A Fragile Earth
Peering down from atop an incline, you behold yet another awesome spectacle in
the distance: The earth ripped open and the underworld's molten rivers and
miasma escaping to the surface.  This young Earth suffers teething pains, and
its tantrum is most awful.

The narrow footpath continues down the hill into a chasm, or northwest back to
the sluice gate.

>nw
Plain
You're standing on the edge of a flooded plain.  A stagnant pond fed by the
redirected river makes a murky mirror across the plain.  An irrigation ditch
controlled by a sluice gate leads to a distant field of wheat covering much of
the valley floor.

To the southeast is a winding footpath leading up an incline, while northeast
of here is a squat cave set in the side of the bank.

Far to the north, you make out a settlement around an enormous cedar tree.  The
way north is blocked by the pond.

The sluice glows a clear blue hue.  The lumens gem is telling you to examine
the sluice closer.

>look gate
A sluice gate with a wood lever controls whether the river water can enter the
irrigation ditch.  The gate's closed, causing the swollen river to flood the
plain.

The sluice glows a clear blue hue.  The lumens gem has detected powerful
memories stored within this surface.  You should apply an ostendo compound to
learn how to unlock them.  They may potentially help you with your inquiry.

[Use LOOK UP OSTENDO to learn what substances you'll need to unlock the
memories stored in the sluice.]

>look up ostendo
(the Pharmakon)
Strong emotional reactions are embedded in surfaces near the source of the
psychic disturbance.

Once an ostendo compound is applied to such a surface, the Indagator will
receive an Inspiration for unlocking the revelation embedded within it.

Note that ostendo, as with all compounds, should only be applied once.
Applying the same compound to the same surface more than once only serves to
waste essences.

Hester IV of Minscip adds a footnote in his peculiar scrawl:

"While detailing the ingredients ostendo requires should be unnecessary for any
Indagator worth his salt, I will transcribe them here to quiet the countless
students who bang on my door at all hours pleading for its formulation: salt &
sulfur.  Now let me sleep!"

c.f., essence, alchemy

[Alas, the Academy didn't send provisions for every ingredient you'll need to
complete your inquiry.  You have some sulfur.  Search around and see if you can
locate some salt.]

>ne
Salt bed
This squat cave entrance is actually nothing more than a dry grotto shaped
convex by the river.

A gash up the side of the grotto reveals a bed of crystal salt embedded in the
rock face.

The sluice gate is to the southwest.

>collect salt
You collect all the salt you can find, prepare it for use, and add it to the
pulverulent cloth.

>sw
Plain
You're standing on the edge of a flooded plain.  A stagnant pond fed by the
redirected river makes a murky mirror across the plain.  An irrigation ditch
controlled by a sluice gate leads to a distant field of wheat covering much of
the valley floor.

To the southeast is a winding footpath leading up an incline, while northeast
of here is a squat cave set in the side of the bank.

Far to the north, you make out a settlement around an enormous cedar tree.  The
way north is blocked by the pond.

The sluice glows a clear blue hue.

[You should APPLY SALT TO SLUICE and APPLY SULFUR TO SLUICE to activate an
ostendo compound.]

>apply salt and sulfur to sluice
You spread some of the salt and the sulfur on the sluice.

The ostendo compound blends and dissolves, preparing to reveal the next steps
for unlocking the revelations burned into the sluice...

In your ear comes a disembodied whisper: "Phlegm and sulfur."

Applying these two essences to the sluice will unlock the memories embedded
within it.

[You may now refer to the ostendo compound by name.  Using it has seared its
list of essences into your memory.  For example, you may APPLY OSTENDO TO
SHOVEL if the need arises.]

>apply phlegm and sulfur to sluice
You spread some of the phlegm and the sulfur on the sluice.

The admixture blends, swells, bubbles, seizes up--

The ethereal voice of a young man appears in your mind.  It is a voice recorded
in the past:

After Father and I dug this trench to irrigate my wheat and vegetables, brother
Abel made a discovery: When the sluice is closed, the field floods deep enough
for his flock to drink from.  This saves him half a day of shepherding them
down to the river and back.  My crops suffer for his laziness.  I have
repeatedly warned him not to lock the sluice closed without my permission.

Mother and Father will not intervene.  He is the youngest son.  They are
intoxicated by his charms and soothed by his assurances that he bears no ill
will.

And yet here I find my field dry as dust and the sluice gate closed.  He has
managed to jam it shut with a wedge, to prevent me from undoing his handiwork.
He is without shame!

The voice fades off, leaving you with an electric charge of scholarly
excitement.  The young man speaks of his brother Abel.  "Mother" is Eve, the
first Woman to walk the Earth.  "Father" is Adam, the first Man.  This is
Cain's voice!

[Use MEMORIES to list all revelations you've surfaced in your inquiry.]

>look pond
With the sluice closed, the swollen river is backed up and flooding the plain.
In the murky still pond you faintly make out a wooden wedge jammed into the
bottom of the sluice gate.  You should be able to reach it.

>remove wedge
You manage to remove the wedge from the gate's jamb, but you lose the slippery
thing in the murky water.  The gate should be free to move now, though.

>pull lever
With a great deal of effort, you succeed in pulling the sluice lever back.  The
gate opens and water rushes into the irrigation ditch.

Within a few minutes, the pond has drained enough for you to move north across
the plain.

>north
River bank
You recognize this to be the opposite bank of the river crossing you attempted.
The rope bridge unraveled entirely and was swept downstream with you.

North of here stands a small settlement.  No fence or markings, only a few
buildings around a grand cedar tree.  To the south is a sluice gate.

Down the rushing river flows ice-cold water.

As though demonstrating the ease of fording a river, the crow launches from the
far bank, soars over the river in a geometric arc, and lands gracefully a few
feet from you.

Without a glance, it emits a berating caaaw at you.

It makes another showy beating of its wings, lifts off, and flies away.

>north
As you approach the settlement, you surmise it was abandoned some time ago.
Time has worn down everything left behind...

Well
A ring of rock surrounds a well in the ground.  A crossbeam dissects the well's
opening in half.  From the depths below comes the echoing trickle of slow-
running water.

The river is south of here, while a towering cedar is to the east.  Beyond it
is a clearing and some ramshackle buildings.

The well glows a clear blue hue.

It would be wise to examine the well closer, in case it may yield any insights
into your inquiry.

>apply ostendo to well
You spread some of the salt and the sulfur on the well.

The ostendo compound blends and dissolves, preparing to reveal the next steps
for unlocking the revelations burned into the well...

In your ear comes a disembodied whisper: "Yellow bile and ash."

Applying this mixture to the well will unlock the memories embedded within.
Now, if you could only find some ash...

>east
Foot of the great cedar tree
You're standing at the foot of a great cedar tree.  Its leafy branches reach
all directions overhead.

The crow alights upon one of the lower branches.  It caws twice at you and
ruffles its wings with a satisfied shrug.  You reckon you could climb to the
tree's lower branches, if you so desired, if only to give the crow a piece of
your mind.

A well stands to the west.  To the south begins an expansive tilled field.
East is a fire pit surrounded by some small buildings.

The Academy has provided once more.  A string of wood cups braided together by
a strand of twine is piled on the ground at the foot of the tree.

>take cups
You pick up the braid of cups.

The crow soars about in the sky for a few moments, as though stretching its
wings, before returning to its branch.

>east
Fire pit
This clearing, along with the great cedar tree to the west, feels to be the hub
of the settlement and its surrounding areas.

In the center of the clearing stands a large fire pit surrounded by a ring of
stones.  The middle is scorched out from much use, but the pit is cold.

East of here, a thatch mud hovel and a gray tent are built against the side of
a hill.  To the south stands a dilapidated wood shack.

Far to the northeast, you discern what appears to be a landslide.

The fire pit stones glow a clear blue hue.

The crow launches from the tree, flies a roundabout loop in the hazy sky, and
returns to its perch.

>take ash
You collect all the ash you can find, prepare it for use, and add it to the
pulverulent cloth.

>apply ostendo to stones
You spread some of the salt and the sulfur on the fire pit stones.

The ostendo compound blends and dissolves, preparing to reveal the next steps
for unlocking the revelations burned into the fire pit stones...

In your ear comes a disembodied whisper: "Arsenic, sulfur, and Adam's Humour."

Stones will speak the truth, but you must coax it from them.

Besides arsenic and sulfur, you must determine which of the Four Humours
dominated Adam's temperament.  Studying the Pharmakon may be of help.  Good
places to start would be the entries on Adam and the Four Humours.

Unlocking other revelations around the settlement may shine a light on the
matter as well.

>look up Adam
(the Pharmakon)
The first Man to walk the Earth; the Father of Mankind.  Adam's sin, along with
Eve's, led to their expulsion from paradise.

Sired sons Cain and Abel, and eldest daughter Awan, among other children.

The first four family members--Adam, Eve, Cain, & Abel--each represent a
Humour, and their temperaments, moods, and emotions are defined as such.  None
of the family members share a Humour.

Scholastics speculate Adam was phlegmatic: Reserved, thoughtful, and patient.
The matter remains unknown at the moment, however.

c.f., Four Humours, Eden, Eve

>west
Foot of the great cedar tree
You're standing at the foot of a great cedar tree.  Its leafy branches reach
all directions overhead.

A crow sits on one of the lower tree branches.  You could reach it if you
climbed up.

A well stands to the west.  To the south begins an expansive tilled field.
East is a fire pit surrounded by some small buildings.

>west
Well
A ring of rock surrounds a well in the ground.  A crossbeam dissects the well's
opening in half.  From the depths below comes the echoing trickle of slow-
running water.

The river is south of here, while a towering cedar is to the east.  Beyond it
is a clearing and some ramshackle buildings.

The well glows a clear blue hue.

Your inquiry has determined that the well has a revelation locked within it.

>look well
The stones surrounding the perimeter of the well are mostly egg-shaped river
rock smoothed by erosion.  Judging by the shovel marks cut into the inner walls
of the well, the well was dug by hand, and is not a natural formation the
settlers here took advantage of.

A thick wood crossbeam is mounted over the well.

The compound needed to release the revelation locked within is composed of
yellow bile and ash.

>apply yellow bile and ash to well
You spread some of the yellow bile and the ash on the well.

The admixture blends, swells, bubbles, seizes up--

The young man's voice--Cain--begins speaking in your mind about his father,
Adam:

Father believes with enough contrition, the Creator will permit us to return to
the paradise Eden.  He has begun a hard fast, consuming only sips of rainwater
and nibbles of honeycomb.  It has made him weak.  His ribs press into his skin
and reveal the cage encasing his heart.

Fasting, hard work, and daily exhortations to the Creator have driven Father to
the precipice.  His eyes bulge egg-like from their sockets.  White foam flecks
the corners of his mouth.  He rarely speaks, but when he does, he rants and
raves, permitting none of us to get in so much as two words.

Unlike Mother, he refuses to discuss his time in the garden paradise before
their sins drove them out.  Hard work is his silent contrition for his error--
daily, grinding, maddening hard work.

This suggests much about Adam's temperament--and his Humour.  Obsession driven
to madness is a well-established behavior of an overly choleric person.  The
Pharmakon has more information.

[You've unlocked another revelation.  Use MEMORIES for all revelations you may
recall.]

>look up choleric
(the Pharmakon)
The humour yellow bile makes one choleric.  It is countered by the chamomile
poison.

The choleric are characterized as decisive, analytic, and "quick on their
feet."  They prefer action over contemplation.  Unlike melancholics, they live
in the moment rather than the past.

An excess of cholera leads to a depletion of the choleric's admirable
qualities.  Decisiveness becomes quick-tempered; analytics are surrendered to
instinct.  Anger and snap decisions become their norm.  Madness is common.

c.f., yellow bile, chamomile, melancholic, Four Humours, madness

Lost in thought for a moment, your focus snaps back when the crow's shrill call
cuts through the air.

>east
Foot of the great cedar tree
You're standing at the foot of a great cedar tree.  Its leafy branches reach
all directions overhead.

A crow sits on one of the lower tree branches.  You could reach it if you
climbed up.

A well stands to the west.  To the south begins an expansive tilled field.
East is a fire pit surrounded by some small buildings.

>east
Fire pit
This clearing, along with the great cedar tree to the west, feels to be the hub
of the settlement and its surrounding areas.

In the center of the clearing stands a large fire pit surrounded by a ring of
stones.  The middle is scorched out from much use, but the pit is cold.

East of here, a thatch mud hovel and a gray tent are built against the side of
a hill.  To the south stands a dilapidated wood shack.

Far to the northeast, you discern what appears to be a landslide.

The fire pit stones glow a clear blue hue.

Your inquiry has determined that the fire pit stones have a revelation locked
within them.

>apply arsenic, sulfur, and yellow bile to stones
You spread some of the arsenic, the sulfur, and the yellow bile on the fire pit
stones.

The admixture blends, swells, bubbles, seizes up--

Cain's voice appears in your thoughts, a message from the past:

Each night, Father ignites the Great Fire.  On haunches before the crackling
flames, he supplicates himself to the Creator.  His cries for forgiveness echo
off the mountains to the south.

Some mornings, I find him passed out before the Fire's dying embers.  He lies
naked and uncovered, having worked himself into a froth before losing
consciousness.

Once, in a raving lather, Adam cried out to the dancing Fire: "The world was
created in goodness!  So it must be governed according to the fruit of good
works!"

Father throws salt into the Fire to divine our family's future.  He wishes to
foresee if we will be permitted to return to the garden paradise.  And Adam has
divined a magick: He applies salt and ash to the pit to ignite the Fire.

In his mania he ignores the Crow, who trills down at him from the Great Tree.
The Crow is scolding Adam for resorting to the black arts.

I know this: Ignore the Crow at your own peril.

When Cain's voice fades off, you realize the "magick" Adam learned is, in fact,
established science.  It is known as encyp, and it is recorded in the
Pharmakon.

[You've unlocked another revelation.  Use MEMORIES for all revelations you may
recall.]

>look up encyp
(the Pharmakon)
Producing fire is a remedial skill explained by any proficient woodsman or
soldier.  However, restoring an extinguished fire without the aid of flint or
spark is a trick most rare.

The alchemical encyp compound is trivial: salt & ash.  The compound is only
effective for restoring fire in a location where a previous fire burned, such
as a hearth or a scorched field.

As is his wont, Hester IV of Minscip cannot help but add in the margin:
"Alomancy--salt divination--has an ancient provenance.  It is often coupled
with pyromancy, that is, fire divination.  Restoring a fire regularly used for
alomancy can reveal much about the alomancer and his or her flock."

c.f., essence, alchemy

>apply salt and ash to fire pit
You spread some of the salt and the ash on the fire pit.

The admixture blends, swells, bubbles, seizes up--

Again, Cain's voice appears in your thoughts:

"The Fire has forsaken me," Adam proclaims.  He has broken his fast, and his
health is much improved.  "Both of you are to begin a ritual of sacrifice.
Cain, gather your best grain and vegetables.  Abel, slaughter the first of your
flock.  Submit your yield to the Creator for judgment."

"I shall do as you wish," I tell Father and Mother.

"I will not," Abel says.  "Such waste does not honor my labor."

"Listen to your father," Eve says.  "The one who provides the best sacrifice
will be rewarded."

Far to the northeast, The Crow perches among the rocks.  It caws twice for our
attention.

"Establish your shrine where the Crow calls from," Father says.

With a great whooom, a massive and intense fire springs up in the pit.  So
sudden, and igniting with such force, you stumble backwards in retreat, heart
palpitating and the whiff of singed hair all about you.

A pile of cold charcoal you previously overlooked now smolders.  Its coals glow
a soft orange color.

[You may now refer to the encyp compound by name.]

[You've unlocked another revelation.]

>west
Foot of the great cedar tree
You're standing at the foot of a great cedar tree.  Its leafy branches reach
all directions overhead.

A crow sits on one of the lower tree branches.  You could reach it if you
climbed up.

A well stands to the west.  To the south begins an expansive tilled field.
East is a fire pit surrounded by some small buildings.  Smoke rises from its
center.

The crow's piercing call shatters the still air.

>south
In the wheat field
Twenty or thirty hectares of wheat are planted in tidy rows along the southern
edge of the settlement.

You recognize this to be a field of domesticated grain.  That knowledge comes
not from your time at the Academy, but rather of an unremarkable youth spent
harvesting wheat and sorghum on your grandfather's farm.

Traveling north will lead you out of the field and toward the center of the
settlement.  A dilapidated shack stands to the east, while a path south through
the field leads to a clearing.

A rough and ready scarecrow stands upright here.

>look scarecrow
This crude dummy is little more than willow and straw fashioned into a human-
like form and tied to a post.  Its lifeless eyes stare off toward a clearing to
the south.

Not that this scarecrow has earned its keep--from what you've seen so far, the
crows around here seem to feel they rule the roost.

You snap your fingers: An ocu compound may give this scarecrow a voice to the
events it's witnessed in this field.  The Pharmakon should be of help here.

>look up ocu
(the Pharmakon)
Dummies, portraits, and any other lifeless mimicry possessing human eyes may
retain a memory of the past they've witnessed.  Ocu provides a way to hear
these mimics' tales.

Arsenic & phlegm grants a voice to these mute witnesses.  Merely apply the
compound to the form bearing the eyes, and one will re-envision what the
mimicked eyes witnessed.

c.f., essence, alchemy

>apply arsenic and phlegm to scarecrow
You spread some of the arsenic and the phlegm on the scarecrow.

The admixture blends, swells, bubbles, seizes up--

Your eyes become the scarecrow's eyes.  Through them, you witness an age-old
altercation: A brotherly spat.

Cain toils in the field for hours exposed to the stark white sun.  Abel passes
by on several occasions, cool and refreshed, with a puckish smirk and a
mischievous air about him.

"Have you not your flock to attend to?" Cain snaps.  He has labored all morning
with a shovel to dig an enormous egg-shaped rock out from the field.

"You are the keeper of your field," Abel says.  "My flock is my business."

Throughout the sweltering day, Abel passes by several more times, never
offering assistance.  Cain toils against the stubborn rock.  The egg-shaped
rock does not budge.

Abel taunts him.  "The river is cool today.  I swam while my flock quenched
their thirst.  What have you been doing with your time?"

Temper sapped, Cain throws aside the shovel and storms off.  The rock in the
field remains embedded in the ground.  Abel grins, shakes his head, and
saunters off.

The crow cries out twice...and you return to the present moment, with only the
memory of the scarecrow's vision as a memento.

[You may now refer to the ocu compound by name.]

[You've unlocked another revelation.]

>south
Clearing
The meticulously tended field of wheat opens to a circular clearing of trampled
stalks and grain-heavy florets crushed underfoot.

Off-center of the clearing sits a squat russet-brown rock cracked in half.

The russet-brown rock glows a clear blue hue.

To the southeast stands an almond tree among a cloud of bees.  A field of
flowering sage spreads out to the south.  A scarecrow is north of here.

An almost imperceptible trail of broken wheat stalks cuts southwest through the
field.

The drone of the bees from the southeast is hypnotic.

>apply ostendo to rock
You spread some of the salt and the sulfur on the russet-brown rock.

The ostendo mixture sizzles and smokes.  Something is wrong--the noxious fumes
smell raw and sour--

Anguished screams come at you like banshees from all directions.  They send you
reeling left and right in confusion.

When the effect fades and you recover your wits, you realize how potent and
deep-seated the memory within this rock must be.

To understand what it holds, you'll need to unlock more revelations in and
around the settlement.

You should also be certain of the Humour corresponding to each family member:
Adam, Eve, Cain, and Abel.  (Use MEMORIES to track what you've learned.)

You're clammy and perspiring slightly.  All the walking around has made you
feel more winded than you would expect.

>se
Beehive
Tucked between the lowest branches of this elderly and stooped almond tree is a
mud-covered beehive swarming with its diligent occupants.  The mud hive has
grown too weighty for its perch.  Portions have broken away.  The bees are
frantic and steadfast in their concerted efforts to shore it up.

A loose honeycomb shard hangs from the wall of the hive.

You can retrace your footsteps through the wheat field by going northwest.  To
the west opens up a field of sage.

>take honeycomb
Gently, so not to disturb the hive or its occupants, you remove the brittle
chunk of wax and set it in one of the cups in the braid.

The bees notice the loss.  For a moment their numbers and intensity are
changed.  You feel threatened, and sense they will turn on you en masse, but
they soon settle and continue their labors.

With the honeycomb removed, the fat mud hive is partially opened, like a
grievous belly wound exposing the innards of a suffering man.  You spy within
the hive several pockets of the highly-desired royal jelly.

>nw
Clearing
The meticulously tended field of wheat opens to a circular clearing of trampled
stalks and grain-heavy florets crushed underfoot.

Off-center of the clearing sits a squat russet-brown rock cracked in half.

The russet-brown rock glows a clear blue hue.

To the southeast stands an almond tree among a cloud of bees.  A field of
flowering sage spreads out to the south.  A scarecrow is north of here.

An almost imperceptible trail of broken wheat stalks cuts southwest through the
field.

The disturbed bees' drone from the southeast has a distinct intensity to it.

>north
In the wheat field
Twenty or thirty hectares of wheat are planted in tidy rows along the southern
edge of the settlement.

Traveling north will lead you out of the field and toward the center of the
settlement.  A dilapidated shack stands to the east, while a path south through
the field leads to a clearing.

A rough and ready scarecrow stands upright here.

>north
Foot of the great cedar tree
You're standing at the foot of a great cedar tree.  Its leafy branches reach
all directions overhead.

A crow sits on one of the lower tree branches.  You could reach it if you
climbed up.

A well stands to the west.  To the south begins an expansive tilled field.
East is a fire pit surrounded by some small buildings.  Smoke rises from its
center.

>east
Fire pit
This clearing, along with the great cedar tree to the west, feels to be the hub
of the settlement and its surrounding areas.

In the center of the clearing stands a large fire pit surrounded by a ring of
stones.  A roaring fire burns here, sending a column of smoke into the murky
skies.

East of here, a thatch mud hovel and a gray tent are built against the side of
a hill.  To the south stands a dilapidated wood shack.

Far to the northeast, you discern what appears to be a landslide.

A loose pile of smoking charcoal stands beside the intense fire.

Still reeling from the unexpected burst of flame leaping at your face, your
gaze ascends to the heights of the great cedar tree across the clearing.  The
crow is jouncing up and down on its perch.  Its taunting caws echo across the
valley, sounding uncomfortably like the laughter you've endured from the
Academy's Scholastics.

"Indagatores," they murmured with a chuckle.  "When has anyone learned one
thing from them?"

>east
Outside the hovel
You're standing before a hovel constructed of packed mud and straw.  Through
the entry you see the interior is a dim, cold place.

A white cotton roll sits on the ground, another provision from the Academy for
your inquiry.  It appears to be a bandage.

East leads into the hovel.  The fire pit is due west, while a gray four-square
tent is south of here.

The crow soars about in the sky for a few moments, as though stretching its
wings, before returning to its branch.

>take bandage
As you pick it up, a sudden lightheadedness comes over you.  Your skin is
clammy and waxy.  A flushed prickliness swarms about your neck and temples.

>enter
Hovel
The dim interior of this abandoned mud-and-thatch hovel suggests the family who
made a life here lived quite roughly.  Straw has been strewn about as bedding,
with leftover strips of coarse linen indicative of old blankets left behind.

A limp and oversized woven basket sits upside-down on the floor, as though
pushed over and set aside in the hurry to abandon this place.

These sparse accomodations can only remind you of life on your grandfather's
farm, and the drafty cottage you both sought shelter in during snowstorms and
torrential rains.

How long has it been since you last shivered inside that cottage?  Not long
enough.

>look under basket
The meager sunlight from the entry catches something nestled among the rags
under the basket.  It's a gleaming slab of obsidian sparkling in the gray
sunlight coming through the entryway.

>take slab
On your knees and stretching as far as you can reach, your fingertips get
enough of a hold to slide the obsidian slab close and pick it up.  It fits
nicely in your hand.

>look blankets
Just handling the linen sends dust motes up into the meager light admitted
through the entryway.

You notice a strand of yellow silk caught in the mud and thatch of the rear
wall.

You're clammy and perspiring slightly.  All the walking around has made you
feel more winded than you would expect.

>look silk
Upon closer examination, you see the silk is actually a strand of blond hair.
It's long with a slight wave in it.  From the length and various qualities of
the hair, you believe this to be from the head of a girl or a young woman.

The strand of blond hair glows a clear blue hue.  The hair is so slight, the
hue is barely noticeable.

>take hair
Gently you pluck up the strand of blond hair.

>apply ostendo to hair
You spread some of the salt and the sulfur on the strand of blond hair.

The ostendo compound blends and dissolves, preparing to reveal the next steps
for unlocking the revelations burned into the strand of blond hair...

A disembodied voice whispers nearby: "Eve's Humour, poison of Adam's Humour,
and wax."

The Pharmakon will be of service here in determining which essences correspond
to Adam's and Eve's Humours.  In particular, you must add the poison of Adam's
Humour.

It's also possible the information may be gleaned by coaxing visions and
revelations from other surfaces in the settlement.  Keep searching!

>look in slab
In the black sheen of the polished surface, you spy a faint representation of
yourself: Your nose, the perspiration across your brow, the corners of your
mouth drooping, and especially your twin piercing eyes glancing back at you.

Most of all, you appear...beleaguered.

A sharp jolt shakes you to and fro, causing you to check your balance.  It's
another reminder of a young Earth finding its legs.

>apply ocu to slab
You spread some of the arsenic and the phlegm on the obsidian slab.

The admixture blends, swells, bubbles, seizes up--

Your eyes reflecting back at you become the eyes of all who've gazed into the
obsidian's polished surface.  It is Eve who has peered into it the most.

A beauty when she was first created, her grace was ground down by her exile to
the wilderness.  Deadened eyes and a lifeless expression have replaced the
charms of her youth.

While studying herself in the obsidian mirror, she tells her children long and
loving stories of life in Eden.  Every plant bore succulent fruit and aromatic
blossoms.  The waterfalls provided endless fresh water.  Never a storm to flood
the garden.  Never a drought to parch the soil.

"It was a place of no tomorrows," she tells her children.  "It was a time of no
yesterdays."

Adam tells her to quit lulling the children with tales of that which has
passed.  "There are stones to turn and lambs to slaughter."

Eve lives her days in a waking half-dream peering back in time through the
polished obsidian.  The weight of paradise lost is immense.

When the vision ceases, there is no doubt in your mind: Eve is afflicted with
melancholy.  The Pharmakon has more information.

[You've unlocked another revelation.]

>look up Eve
(the Pharmakon)
The first Woman to walk the Earth; the Mother of Mankind.  Eve's sin, along
with Adam's, led to their expulsion from paradise.

Bore sons Cain and Abel, and eldest daughter Awan, among other children.

The first four family members--Adam, Eve, Cain, & Abel--each represent a
Humour, and their temperaments, moods, and emotions are defined as such.  None
of the family members share a Humour.

Scholastics are uncertain which Humour represents Eve.

c.f., Four Humours, Eden, Adam

>look up melancholy
(the Pharmakon)
The humour black bile makes one melancholic.  It is countered by the arsenic
poison.

Those afflicted with melancholy suffer from the most complex of emotional
dispositions, which can only be described as a kind of withdrawal from
relationships as well as society.  Melancholy often leads to despair, the
foulest of sins.

c.f., black bile, arsenic, Four Humours, depression

>exit
Outside the hovel
You're standing before a hovel constructed of packed mud and straw.  Through
the entry you see the interior is a dim, cold place.

East leads into the hovel.  The fire pit is due west, while a gray four-square
tent is south of here.

>west
Fire pit
This clearing, along with the great cedar tree to the west, feels to be the hub
of the settlement and its surrounding areas.

In the center of the clearing stands a large fire pit surrounded by a ring of
stones.  A roaring fire burns here, sending a column of smoke into the murky
skies.

East of here, a thatch mud hovel and a gray tent are built against the side of
a hill.  To the south stands a dilapidated wood shack.

Far to the northeast, you discern what appears to be a landslide.

A loose pile of smoking charcoal stands beside the intense fire.

A bee passing through the clearing steers far from the smoldering pile of
charcoal, as though allergic to its smoke, and flies away.

>south
Outside a slaughterhouse
This dilapidated shack of rough-cut cypress planks leans to one side and is in
need of shoring up.  From the dried red-wine splatter about the interior walls,
it's obvious this was a slaughterhouse.

The shack may be entered from here by going south.  A fire pit is due north,
while a field of wheat stands to the west.

Lost in thought for a moment, your focus snaps back when the crow's shrill call
cuts through the air.

>enter
Slaughterhouse
The interior of the rustic slaughterhouse is stark and stunning to the
uninitiated.

The planks are a rich tannin color from the sheer quantity of blood spilled.
The coloration spreads up the walls, spattered from countless slaughtered
animals.  You imagine a grim assortment of iron tools and instruments once
filled this place.

Mostly, it's the lingering odor here that strikes you.

A wide tree stump occupies the center of the shack.

In one corner is a loose pile of animal bones.

A short stout knife lies on the tree stump.

The tree stump glows a clear blue hue.

>take knife
You pick up the knife.

>apply ostendo to stump
You spread some of the salt and the sulfur on the tree stump.

The ostendo compound blends and dissolves, preparing to reveal the next steps
for unlocking the revelations burned into the tree stump...

A voice whispers in your ear: "Abel's Humour, the poison of phlegm--which is
Cain's Humour--and salt."

Excellent--ostendo has revealed phlegm to be Cain's Humour.  But note you must
apply phlegm's corresponding poison.

The Pharmakon and further searching of the settlement may help in deducing
which essences are to be used on the stump.

>look up Abel
(the Pharmakon)
Second son of Adam and Eve.  Abel's sin: unknown.  Some Scholastics speculate
he was without blame.

Abel was the first herdsman and shepherd, and he managed the family's flock.
He is considered a kind and gentle soul, and often pictured holding a lamb or a
shepherd's crook.

The first four family members--Adam, Eve, Cain, & Abel--each represent a
Humour, and their temperaments, moods, and emotions are defined as such.  None
of the family members share a Humour.

Abel's blameless quality suggests to many Scholastics that he was sanguine.

c.f., Four Humours, Cain

>look up sanguine
(the Pharmakon)
The humour blood makes one sanguine.  It is countered by the lymph poison.

The sanguine temperament is considered the best temperament to possess, for a
person of this temperament is cheerful, prankish, and charming.

Sanguinity imbues the lucky person with the envious skills of judging a face,
reading a room, playing to the crowd.

An excess of blood in the body leads to an excess of its considerable powers:
The person becomes biting, insensitive to others, and indifferent to their
fates.

c.f., blood, lymph, Four Humours

>look up phlegm
(the Pharmakon)
Phlegm is a remedy promoting a phlegmatic nature: reserved, quiet, thoughtful,
introspective.  It is countered by the sage poison.

Hester IV of Minscip makes a handwritten addition: "Not to be confused with the
phlegm from a runny nose!  What organ secretes this vital fluid remains unknown
to medical science."

c.f., sage, remedy, phlegmatic

>look up blood
(the Pharmakon)
Blood is a remedy promoting a sanguine nature: active, enthusiastic, social.
It is countered by the lymph poison.

Only fluid blood makes an acceptable essence.  The dried variety is of no use
to producing compounds.

Hester IV of Minscip adds: "If an Indagator is unable to procure a quantity of
blood, he or she often needs to provide it from their own body.  This is the
SACRIFICE of our chosen profession!"

c.f., lymph, remedy, sanguine

>look up sharpen
(the Pharmakon)
Although reversing the ravages of human age remains well-beyond the current
limits of medical science, our understanding of the physical world does permit
the more modest ability of restoring a simple man-made object to its earlier
form.

The alchemical compound novo may be concocted by applying the following
essences to the article in need of restoration: sulfur & black bile.

Note the limits of novo: Complex machinery and intricate work are unaffected by
the compound.  Only the most simplest of creations are within its powers.

c.f., essence, alchemy

>apply sulfur and black bile to knife
You spread some of the sulfur and the black bile on the knife.

The admixture blends, swells, bubbles, seizes up--

The rust sizzles and burns off, producing a noxious smoke.  Within moments, the
years of age and use are wound back, leaving you with a a bright blade of oiled
iron and a threatening edge.

[You may now refer to the novo compound by name.]

>cut self with knife
After steeling yourself, you open a bit of flesh.  Blood flows into one of the
rucksack's glass phials.

After drawing a sufficient quantity, you wrap your wound with the bandage.  A
vertigo comes over you; a moment later, the dizziness recedes.

>take bone
You take one of the bones off the pile.

>exit
Outside a slaughterhouse
This dilapidated shack of rough-cut cypress planks leans to one side and is in
need of shoring up.  From the dried red-wine splatter about the interior walls,
it's obvious this was a slaughterhouse.

The shack may be entered from here by going south.  A fire pit is due north,
while a field of wheat stands to the west.

>north
Fire pit
This clearing, along with the great cedar tree to the west, feels to be the hub
of the settlement and its surrounding areas.

In the center of the clearing stands a large fire pit surrounded by a ring of
stones.  A roaring fire burns here, sending a column of smoke into the murky
skies.

East of here, a thatch mud hovel and a gray tent are built against the side of
a hill.  To the south stands a dilapidated wood shack.

Far to the northeast, you discern what appears to be a landslide.

A loose pile of smoking charcoal stands beside the intense fire.

The smoldering pile of charcoal causes a passing bee to alter its course.  It
makes a wide arc around the smoke.

>ne
After walking a fair distance, you reach...

Landslide
Loose shale and rock covers the foothill of a mountain range.  You suspect the
event was recent, and perhaps triggered by the groundshaking activity you've
endured since arriving here.

The fire pit is to the southwest.  A thick column of smoke rises from its
center.

>look up metal
(the Pharmakon)
Dissolving metals is one of the more terrible and destructive powers available
to the Indagator, and one with the greatest potential for undesirable
consequences.

The essences involved for vulk are simply these: arsenic, sulfur, & wax.
Applied properly, the metal will melt into its elemental state and evaporate
off.

Heed with care this alchemical transformation: Improperly used, it can wreck an
inquiry.

Hester IV of Minscip adds with uncharacteristic piquancy, "Good for breaking
free of jail cells & shackles!" suggesting the predicaments an Indagator
routinely faces.

c.f., essence, alchemy

You're clammy and perspiring slightly.  All the walking around has made you
feel more winded than you would expect.

>apply arsenic, sulfur, and wax to boulder
You spread some of the arsenic, the sulfur, and the wax on the boulder.

The admixture blends, swells, bubbles, seizes up--

The strips and pockets of iron ore in the boulder quiver, then melt off like
suet in a hot pan.  The now hollowed-out boulder crumbles under the weight of
itself, as well as the weight of the surrounding rock pressing down upon it.

You scramble back in time to witness the landslide collapse into heaps of
rubble and chalky billows of dust around a freshly-revealed crevice in the
rock.

[You may now refer to the vulk compound by name.]

>enter
...Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the LORD.

And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat
thereof.  And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his offering:

But unto Cain and to his offering He had not respect.
                  -Genesis 4:3-5 KJV
Cavern
Passages within this dark cavern branch deeper into the mountain.  Sizable ones
lead to the northeast and southeast.

A great vermillion-colored face is painted on the cave wall between the two
larger passages.

On the wall near the northeast passage is a small, naturally-formed pocket in
the rock about the size of your hand.

A deposit of a chalky red substance is in the north end of the cavern.

The cavern exits through a slim crevice to the west.

>apply ocu to face
You spread some of the arsenic and the phlegm on the painted face.

The admixture blends, swells, bubbles, seizes up--

Through the eyes painted on the wall, you witness Cain and Abel entering the
cavern.

In a straw basket Cain has assembled a sacrifice of ripe vegetables, ears of
wheat, palm hearts stored in their own oil, sage honey, and tree nuts.

Abel carries his sacrifice in a cured sheep stomach.  Within it he has placed
odd scraps of pelt, boiled bones, and a dried ox testicle wrapped in palm
leaves.

They enter their shrines, Abel to the northeast, Cain to the southeast.  They
return and kneel before the great face.  Cain bows his head; Abel appears
bored.

Soon, they rise and return to their shrines.  Cain emerges with his untouched
bounty.  Abel emerges as well, however, he is empty-handed.

"The Creator has taken my offering to the heavens, and rejected your paltry
nuts and honey," Abel announces.

Cain hurries between the two shrines, first with puzzlement, then with anger.
He confronts the stoic vermillion face.  "How can this be?" he yells at the
wall.  "The world was created in goodness!  Is it not governed by the reward of
good works?"

He throws aside his offering and storms out of the cavern, and Abel's laughter
booms off the high walls.

[You've unlocked another revelation.]

>north
Cinnabar deposit
In a shallow grotto off the deep cavern you find a slim vein of deep-vermillion
cinnabar running down the curved wall.

The rest of the cavern is to the south.

>take cinnabar
You collect a single nugget of the precious cinnabar.

>south
Cavern
Passages within this dark cavern branch deeper into the mountain.  Sizable ones
lead to the northeast and southeast.

A great vermillion-colored face is painted on the cave wall between the two
larger passages.

On the wall near the northeast passage is a small, naturally-formed pocket in
the rock about the size of your hand.

A cinnabar deposit is in the north end of the cavern.

The cavern exits through a slim crevice to the west.

>put slab in pocket
The obsidian slab fits snugly within the pocket.  It stands up within the
opening.

Due to its angle, it reflects an image of the shrine to the northeast.

>ne
Shrine to the Firstlings of the Flock
This natural grotto has been transformed to a shrine dedicated to meat, organs,
blood, and fat.  Drawings of grisly sacrifices being slaughtered and butchered
smother the cave wall in a baroque and monstrous display.  Most of the drawings
depict the bones of various animals.

These grotesques converge on a stone altar surrounded by shadows.

You can exit to the southwest.

>put bone on altar
You put the animal bone on the stone altar.

>sw
Cavern
Passages within this dark cavern branch deeper into the mountain.  Sizable ones
lead to the northeast and southeast.

A great vermillion-colored face is painted on the cave wall between the two
larger passages.

On the wall near the northeast passage is a small, naturally-formed pocket in
the rock about the size of your hand.

In the wall pocket you see an obsidian slab.

A cinnabar deposit is in the north end of the cavern.

The cavern exits through a slim crevice to the west.

>look in slab
With the slab situated so, you can see a dark reflection of the shrine to the
northeast.  On the altar is the animal bone.

Unexpectedly comes movement in the black reflection--a sleek four-legged animal
emerges from the shrine's shadows!  Stealthily, it sniffs around at the bone,
takes it between its teeth, and thieves it away.

It darts back into the shadows and disappears.

>take slab
You pick up the obsidian slab.  It fits well in your hand.

>ne
Shrine to the Firstlings of the Flock
This natural grotto has been transformed to a shrine dedicated to meat, organs,
blood, and fat.  Drawings of grisly sacrifices being slaughtered and butchered
smother the cave wall in a baroque and monstrous display.  Most of the drawings
depict the bones of various animals.

These grotesques converge on a stone altar surrounded by shadows.

Now aware of what you're looking for, you discover a dark crevice leading to
the southeast.

You can exit to the southwest.

>search shadows
A narrow crevice lurks among the shadows.

>enter crevice
Lair
This deep cave is barely high enough for you to stand in.  Scattered across the
ground are bits of cracked bone.  The stink of rot and animal waste is thick in
here.

A vicious badger cowers against the rear of the cave, teeth bared and hair on
its back standing.  It's tied by a tether to a hook in the wall.  It snarls and
snaps at you.

Near the badger is a pool of congealed grease.

You notice an umber stain on the volcanic rock near you.

The umber stain glows a clear blue hue.

The only way out is through a crevice to the northwest.

The badger snarls and hisses at you.  It's pressed against the rear reaches of
this tight cave.

>cut tether
(with the knife)
Freed, the badger races out of the cave as fast as its stubby legs will carry
it.  The tether jounces along the ground behind it like an elongated tail,
until both are gone.

>take grease
You collect all the grease you can find, prepare it for use, and add it to the
braid of cups.

>apply ostendo to stain
You spread some of the salt and the sulfur on the umber stain.

The ostendo compound blends and dissolves, preparing to reveal the next steps
for unlocking the revelations burned into the umber stain...

In your ear comes a disembodied whisper: "The remedy of the phlegmatic, the
poison of the sanguine, and wax."

>apply phlegm, lymph, and wax to stain
You spread some of the phlegm, the lymph, and the wax on the umber stain.

The admixture blends, swells, bubbles, seizes up--

Cain's voice arrives in your ear all at once, and in a rage:

Abel's gone too far--this trick of his to prove his sacrifice is worthy and
mine worthless--it's profane--

Once again my brother has found a way to humiliate me.  In his humiliation, he
has discovered another way to impress Father and open Mother's heart a little
wider for him.  Even our sister Awan has grown enamored with him.  I sense it
in her eyes and smile when he departs to tend to his flock.

My attempts to free the frightened animal have left me bloodied and lacerated.
His callousness toward this innocent creature is unforgiveable.

I must go and dig the rock out of the wheat field.  I will return afterwards
with food for the trapped animal, and determine some way to free it.

[You've unlocked another revelation.]

>exit
Shrine to the Firstlings of the Flock
This natural grotto has been transformed to a shrine dedicated to meat, organs,
blood, and fat.  Drawings of grisly sacrifices being slaughtered and butchered
smother the cave wall in a baroque and monstrous display.  Most of the drawings
depict the bones of various animals.

These grotesques converge on a stone altar surrounded by shadows.

You can exit to the southwest, or pass through a dark crevice to the southeast.

>exit
Cavern
Passages within this dark cavern branch deeper into the mountain.  Sizable ones
lead to the northeast and southeast.

A great vermillion-colored face is painted on the cave wall between the two
larger passages.

On the wall near the northeast passage is a small, naturally-formed pocket in
the rock about the size of your hand.

A cinnabar deposit is in the north end of the cavern.

The cavern exits through a slim crevice to the west.

>exit
Cavern entrance
Rubble of shale and loose rock cover the ground here, evidence of a recent
landslide.  A jagged crevice in the side of a hill opens to a dim cavern within
the mountain.

The fire pit is to the southwest.  A thick column of smoke rises from its
center.

>sw
It's a fairly long walk to the fire pit.

Fire pit
This clearing, along with the great cedar tree to the west, feels to be the hub
of the settlement and its surrounding areas.

In the center of the clearing stands a large fire pit surrounded by a ring of
stones.  A roaring fire burns here, sending a column of smoke into the murky
skies.

East of here, a thatch mud hovel and a gray tent are built against the side of
a hill.  To the south stands a dilapidated wood shack.

Far to the northeast, you discern what appears to be a cavern entrance.

A loose pile of smoking charcoal stands beside the intense fire.

The charcoal pile's thick smoke shifts with the change in the wind's direction.

>east
Outside the hovel
You're standing before a hovel constructed of packed mud and straw.  Through
the entry you see the interior is a dim, cold place.

East leads into the hovel.  The fire pit is due west, while a gray four-square
tent is south of here.

The crow from somewhere in the distance cries out.

>south
Inside the tent
Inside this spacious tent is smashed and overturned equipment, as though
destroyed in a fit of rage.  You gather from the loose bits strewn about that
this was once a craft workshop.

The only undisturbed piece of equipment is a length of rope tied to the tent's
center post.

>cut knot
(with the knife)
After some sawing with the knife, you succeed in cutting the knot, leaving a
good length of sturdy rope on the ground before you.

>take rope
You coil up the rope and sling it over your shoulder.

>exit
Outside the hovel
You're standing before a hovel constructed of packed mud and straw.  Through
the entry you see the interior is a dim, cold place.

East leads into the hovel.  The fire pit is due west, while a gray four-square
tent is south of here.

>west
Fire pit
This clearing, along with the great cedar tree to the west, feels to be the hub
of the settlement and its surrounding areas.

In the center of the clearing stands a large fire pit surrounded by a ring of
stones.  A roaring fire burns here, sending a column of smoke into the murky
skies.

East of here, a thatch mud hovel and a gray tent are built against the side of
a hill.  To the south stands a dilapidated wood shack.

Far to the northeast, you discern what appears to be a cavern entrance.

A loose pile of smoking charcoal stands beside the intense fire.

A sharp gust causes the smoke from the pile of charcoal to form a thin trail in
the air.

>west
Foot of the great cedar tree
You're standing at the foot of a great cedar tree.  Its leafy branches reach
all directions overhead.

A crow sits on one of the lower tree branches.  You could reach it if you
climbed up.

A well stands to the west.  To the south begins an expansive tilled field.
East is a fire pit surrounded by some small buildings.  Smoke rises from its
center.

The crow launches from the tree, flies a roundabout loop in the hazy sky, and
returns to its perch.

>west
Well
A ring of rock surrounds a well in the ground.  A crossbeam dissects the well's
opening in half.  From the depths below comes the echoing trickle of slow-
running water.

The river is south of here, while a towering cedar is to the east.  Beyond it
is a clearing and some ramshackle buildings.

From far off comes the rumbling of moving earth.  You prepare youself for the
inevitable quaking of the earth--and it arrives, if only for a few moments.

>tie rope to crossbeam
You tie the rope to the crossbeam and throw the other end down to the bottom of
the well.

>climb down well
Ponderously, and with a streak of self-doubt eating at you, you take hold of
the rope and rappel down the throat of the well...

Bottom of well
A trickle of a cold stream runs across your feet.  In the dim light from above,
you cannot make out where the water originates from or disappears to, but you
do see the underground cavern continues to the southeast.  You also make out a
narrow passage to the north.

The climb down winded you.  Your arms feel doughy and your ribs ache.

The rope dangles here, offering a way up to the surface.

>north
Corpse
Crumpled before you in an undignified heap is a corpse.  From his attire, you
can tell he was an Indagator from the Academy.

You spy a jagged crevice cut in the tunnel high above revealing a scar of sky
and some scattered sunlight.

A narrow passage runs south.

A raucous flapping of wings echoes down the cave walls, followed by an ear-
piercing caaaw.  The crow's stark silhouette forms a distinct outline in the
white light of the crevice above.

>look corpse
It is Crado, a highly experienced Indagator.  He was sent by the Academy before
you.

Both his legs are broken.  He must have suffered the injury climbing down the
well, crawled here, and expired.  Such are the risks of your chosen
profession...but still.  To die in this manner is a waste.

You discover a band partially hidden by the body.

A single gentle caw from the crow comes down to you as though reminding you of
your task at hand.

>look band
It's an orbis bracelet!

Once your inquiry is completed, it can deliver you back to the safety and
comforts of the Academy.

This is Crado's orbis, though.  If you were to place it on his body, he would
be sent back to the Academy for a proper burial.  The orbis bracelet would
travel with him.

>take bracelet
You take Crado's orbis bracelet.

You're definitely feverish, and grower sicker by the minute, but you must press
on.  Once this inquiry is over, you can take a long, well-deserved rest.

>south
Bottom of well
A trickle of a cold stream runs across your feet.  In the dim light from above,
you cannot make out where the water originates from or disappears to, but you
do see the underground cavern continues to the southeast.  You also make out a
narrow passage to the north.

The rope dangles here, offering a way up to the surface.

>se
You trudge through the dank darkness for a while...

A dark tunnel
A bend in the tunnel runs northwest toward a feebly-lit clearing in the cave,
and south toward a bright exit.

A small unadorned clay jug lies on its side on the cave floor.

>take jug
You pick up the clay jug.

>south
You trudge down the dark corridor toward a blindingly bright light, and emerge
into daylight...

An Uncertain Earth
Swaying in the breeze is a modest array of flowering chamomile.

A massive crevice has torn open the earth beside the field.  Steaming effluence
emerges from its depths.  Across the chasm to the west blooms a robust field of
sage.

A dank cave is to the north.

A few bees fly off from the chamomile and meander across the chasm to the sage.

>collect chamomile
You pick all the flowering chamomile, as only the yellow pistil is suitable for
mixing compounds.

>apply black bile, chamomile and wax to hair
You spread some of the black bile, the chamomile, and the wax on the strand of
blond hair.

The admixture blends, swells, bubbles, seizes up--

Cain's voice, once more:

Mother commands me to marry my sister, Awan, as well as Second Daughter when
she is of age.

To me, she says: "As the eldest, you are responsible for Abel and your sisters.
When your father and I are no longer of this world, you will be patriarch."

To my brother, she says: "Abel, you will serve your brother, to ensure the
family of Mankind prospers and spreads."

Our sisters gather in a tight brood far from the Fire.  The dancing flames
illuminate their horrified expressions.

"Cain, you and your sisters will produce twelve children," she says.

I plead with her.  The sheep and swine do not breed brother with sister.  "Eve
is in charge of family matters," is all Father will say.

Abel announces: "If Cain discards Awan, I will marry her."  But Mother will
have none of it.

That night, Mother drapes over the bed a veil of muslin and linen.  She
perfumes the bed with rare oils and essences.  Awan and I are led to this bower
and instructed to lay together.  We are left alone in the hovel.

Pressed together for warmth, my sister's thick mane pillows both our faces.
She whispers to me: "Please...no...please do not..."

The uncomfortable reckonings of the Earth's first inhabitants fades off.

The hair sizzles away into a sour wispy smoke.

[You've unlocked another revelation.]

>north
You plunge into the cave and its dim dankness...

A dark tunnel
A bend in the tunnel runs northwest toward a feebly-lit clearing in the cave,
and south toward a bright exit.

>nw
You trudge through the darkness toward a dim opening in the caves lit from
above...

Bottom of well
A trickle of a cold stream runs across your feet.  In the dim light from above,
you cannot make out where the water originates from or disappears to, but you
do see the underground cavern continues to the southeast.  You also make out a
narrow passage to the north.

The rope dangles here, offering a way up to the surface.

>climb up rope
With careful but determined progress, you haul yourself up the shaft of the
well...

Well
A ring of rock surrounds a well in the ground.  A crossbeam dissects the well's
opening in half.  From the depths below comes the echoing trickle of slow-
running water.

A length of rope is tied to the crossbeam, with its loose end hanging down the
well's shaft.

The river is south of here, while a towering cedar is to the east.  Beyond it
is a clearing and some ramshackle buildings.

The crow soars about in the sky for a few moments, as though stretching its
wings, before returning to its branch.

>take rope
You pull up the rope and untie it from the crossbeam.  You coil up the rope and
sling it over your shoulder.

>east
Foot of the great cedar tree
You're standing at the foot of a great cedar tree.  Its leafy branches reach
all directions overhead.

A crow sits on one of the lower tree branches.  You could reach it if you
climbed up.

A well stands to the west.  To the south begins an expansive tilled field.
East is a fire pit surrounded by some small buildings.  Smoke rises from its
center.

>east
Fire pit
This clearing, along with the great cedar tree to the west, feels to be the hub
of the settlement and its surrounding areas.

In the center of the clearing stands a large fire pit surrounded by a ring of
stones.  A roaring fire burns here, sending a column of smoke into the murky
skies.

East of here, a thatch mud hovel and a gray tent are built against the side of
a hill.  To the south stands a dilapidated wood shack.

Far to the northeast, you discern what appears to be a cavern entrance.

A loose pile of smoking charcoal stands beside the intense fire.

The smoldering pile of charcoal causes a passing bee to alter its course.  It
makes a wide arc around the smoke.

>take charcoal
With tender fingers and quick moves, you take the topmost chunk of charcoal.
Plenty more remains on the pile.

You toss the scalding chunk of charcoal from one hand to another.  Gray smoke
pollutes the air around you.

>west
Foot of the great cedar tree
You're standing at the foot of a great cedar tree.  Its leafy branches reach
all directions overhead.

A crow sits on one of the lower tree branches.  You could reach it if you
climbed up.

A well stands to the west.  To the south begins an expansive tilled field.
East is a fire pit surrounded by some small buildings.  Smoke rises from its
center.

A flapping of wings and feathers comes from the crow above.

>south
In the wheat field
Twenty or thirty hectares of wheat are planted in tidy rows along the southern
edge of the settlement.

Traveling north will lead you out of the field and toward the center of the
settlement.  A dilapidated shack stands to the east, while a path south through
the field leads to a clearing.

A rough and ready scarecrow stands upright here.

>south
Clearing
The meticulously tended field of wheat opens to a circular clearing of trampled
stalks and grain-heavy florets crushed underfoot.

Off-center of the clearing sits a squat russet-brown rock cracked in half.

The russet-brown rock glows a clear blue hue.

To the southeast stands an almond tree among a cloud of bees.  A field of
flowering sage spreads out to the south.  A scarecrow is north of here.

An almost imperceptible trail of broken wheat stalks cuts southwest through the
field.

The disturbed bees' drone from the southeast has a distinct intensity to it.

>se
Beehive
Tucked between the lowest branches of this elderly and stooped almond tree is a
mud-covered beehive swarming with its diligent occupants.  The mud hive has
grown too weighty for its perch.  Portions have broken away.  The bees are
frantic and steadfast in their concerted efforts to shore it up.

The bees don't care for the charcoal smoke.  They give you a wide berth as you
move, forming a constantly-agitating shell in the air about you.

Hundreds of bees crawl about the interior walls of the hive.  More
significantly, several pockets of royal jelly are within reach.

You can retrace your footsteps through the wheat field by going northwest.  To
the west opens up a field of sage.

>take royal jelly
If you take the royal jelly, you may not be able to return to this area.  Are
you certain you're ready? y
yes

Holding your breath and steeling your resolve, you drop the charcoal, reach
into the gash running down the side of the hive, and scoop up the precious
royal jelly.  The swarm grows furious--reinforcements arrive from the sage
field in waves.

You have just enough time to deposit your prize in a braided cup before you
must--

Run!

>Beehive
Tucked between the lowest branches of this elderly and stooped almond tree is a
mud-covered beehive swarming with its diligent occupants.  The mud hive has
grown too weighty for its perch.  Portions have broken away.

You can beat a hasty retreat by hurrying northwest to the wheat field or west
to the sage.

The bees' furious droning is like a thousand angry men arguing at once.

>nw
You beat a hasty retreat to the field...

Clearing
The meticulously tended field of wheat opens to a circular clearing of trampled
stalks and grain-heavy florets crushed underfoot.

Off-center of the clearing sits a squat russet-brown rock cracked in half.

The russet-brown rock glows a clear blue hue.

To the southeast stands an almond tree among a cloud of bees.  A field of
flowering sage spreads out to the south.  A scarecrow is north of here.

An almost imperceptible trail of broken wheat stalks cuts southwest through the
field.

Panting and out of breath, you look up to the crow in the branches of the great
cedar tree.  Its head bobs up and down as it caws, as though laughing at you.

Your pulse races for too long before calming.  The perspiration on your brow is
not commensurate with your recent physical strain.

>south
Sage field
A narrow winding strip of sage spreads forth from here.  The growth is so
thick, your travel into the field is impeded, and you can only reach the first
row of plants.

Steam and miasma emerge from a wide chasm on the far side of the field.  On the
other side of the chasm stands a field of chamomile.

To the east stands an elderly almond tree supporting a mud hive.  The edge of
the wheat field is to the north.

To the distant south runs an impressive mountain range rising into the mist-
laden sky.

>collect sage
You pick all the flowering sage available to you.

>south
After a taxing journey across the valley plain, you reach the foot of a
mountain range...

Base of mountain
A range of Atlas-like mountains ascends mightily to the misty heavens.  Nearby,
on a more diminutive scale, a rotund obsidian block squats firmly in the
ground.

Up the mountain is a trailhead of animal paths and switchbacks ascending the
side of the mountain.

The settlement is north.

>put slab into scar
The obsidian mirror fits the obsidian block's oval scar perfectly.

With the slab set in the scar, the block is whole once more.  The obsidian
block glows a clear blue hue.

>apply ostendo to block
You spread some of the salt and the sulfur on the obsidian block.

The ostendo compound blends and dissolves, preparing to reveal the next steps
for unlocking the revelations burned into the obsidian block...

In your ear comes a disembodied whisper: "A melancholic remedy, a phlegmatic
poison, a binding excipient, and the Body of the Three Primes."

You're definitely feverish, and grower sicker by the minute, but you must press
on.  Once this inquiry is over, you can take a long, well-deserved rest.

>apply black bile, sage, grease and salt to block
You spread some of the black bile, the sage, the grease, and the salt on the
obsidian block.

The admixture blends, swells, bubbles, seizes up--

Cain's voice is familiar to you now:

Mother gathers Abel, our eldest sister Awan, and myself.  She leads us to the
foot of the mountains.

"Strike the head, strike the heel," she tells us.  "The gift of childbirth was
mine, but I sense it abandoning my body.  Cain and Awan, the gift has been
passed to you.  The great chain of the family of Mankind is now your
responsibility."

"And what of me?" Abel demands.  "The Creator selected my yield in the shrine,
and rejected Cain's."

"Take Cain's inferior grain to the giant Nephilim living beyond the mountains,"
she says.  "Trade with them for tack, tools, and supplies.  If they do not wish
to trade, barter for peace.  The Fire indicates they are growing restless, and
they outnumber us."

I protest.  "Abel is not the proper ambassador of our family.  I am the eldest
son.  I should represent our interests with the Nephilim."

"Abel has been chosen."  Eve shows us the writing on the side of the obsidian
block.  "Heed the warning carved here.  It will guide you through the
mountains."

Cain's voice dies off, leaving you only with an echo of this memory.

[You've unlocked another revelation.]

>look scratches
A mess of deep scratches run down one side of the obsidian block.  It all
appears chaotic, as though some mighty antediluvian creature sharpened his
claws here.  (Pray you do not run into such a beast!)

However, you now realize these crosshatches and angles represents a language--
perhaps the first written language in the history of the world.

>look up language
(the Pharmakon)
After much time with the Pharmakon, your motivated search yields fruit:

The glos compound provides the Indagator a complete understanding of any
written language before him or her...with the proviso that such comprehension
is fleeting, only affording enough time for a few words or a phrase to be
translated.

Hester IV of Minscip adds in his telltale script: "Quite often, that is all a
seasoned Indagator needs!"

The compound is sophisticated by the standards of alchemy: blood, chamomile,
grease, & wax.

The entry concludes with a warning: "The compound must be applied directly to
the writing or symbols stymieing the Indagator."

c.f., essence, alchemy

>apply blood, chamomile, grease and wax to scratches
You spread some of the blood, the chamomile, the grease, and the wax on the
scratches.

The admixture blends, swells, bubbles, seizes up--

You grow euphoric as the knowledge of another tongue floods in.  Your
lightheaded state is amplified by the realization that you are not merely
comprehending a foreign language, but the original language of Mankind.

The aimless lines of the scratches take the shape of knowledge expressed.
Quickly, before the effect of the compound deteriorates, you memorize the gist
of the message:

"BEWARE the animals' paths running up the mountain, for they travel in CIRCLES!
To reach the summit, enter the trailhead and navigate with care these
directions:

Southwest, southeast, east, and then north."

The effect fades away.

[You may now refer to the glos compound by name.]

[You've unlocked another revelation.]

>up
Animal trails
You begin your trek up the mountainside with fresh confidence.  Animal tracks
wander off in every direction.

A nearby slope, quite steep and clear of brush, offers a quick trip down to the
base of the mountain.

>sw
Animal trails
You continue your trek up the mountainside with growing confidence of your
progress.  Animal tracks wander off in every direction.

A nearby slope, quite steep and clear of brush, offers a quick trip down to the
base of the mountain.

>se
Animal trails
You continue your trek up the mountainside with growing confidence of your
progress.  Animal tracks wander off in every direction.

A nearby slope, quite steep and clear of brush, offers a quick trip down to the
base of the mountain.

>east
Animal trails
You continue your trek up the mountainside with growing confidence of your
progress.  Animal tracks wander off in every direction.

A nearby slope, quite steep and clear of brush, offers a quick trip down to the
base of the mountain.

>north
You emerge from the crisscrossing trails to a wind-scarred clearing...

III. AN UNCERTAIN EARTH

Mountain pass
A brisk steady wind cuts across this mountain pass, an unwelcome contrast to
the warm, if chilling, settlement below.  You peer down on the settlement and
realize how far you've traveled to reach here.

A steep slope descends down the mountain in a hurry, while a path leads
southeast.  The way south leads up the mountain.

>save
Save game to file >start3.t3v
Saved.

