spawn dfrotz -m -s 123 firetower.z8
Using normal formatting.
Loading firetower.z8.
"You're certain that you'll be okay on your own?" he asks.

You smile at him, tightening the pack around your waist. A slight laugh creeps
into your voice - it's not as if you haven't done this before. "Yes, dear. I'll
be fine. It's nothing personal, I just..." You take in the concerned expression
on his face and your voice softens slightly. "I just need a break. Not from you,
necessarily, but from everything: work, responsibilities, friends. I just need a
day to myself, you know?"

He nods. "Yeah. Yeah, I guess I do. No worries; I get like that myself
sometimes. Just in case something happens, what route do you plan to take? Your
usual?"

You nod. "Yeah. I'll head up the long way, on the Lower Mt. Cammerer trail, hit
the Appalachian trail to get to the tower, then descend by going further down
the AT towards Low Gap. I'll take the Low Gap trail back to the campground."

He smiles at you. "Like I said, 'Your usual.'  Listen, I'll be back to pick you
up about... Hm, what time?"

"Well, if I were just hiking, I could be out by mid-afternoon, but I really want

to take my time and enjoy things. I guess it gets dark about... what? Half past
nine these days?" He nods. "I should be out by then. I'll meet you right back
here at nine-thirty, okay?" you offer up your most reassuring smile.

"Sure," he says. "I love you. Be careful, and have a great hike."

With that, he kisses you lightly on the lips and gets back in the car. He waves
out the driver's side window and heads off toward the north end of the parking
lot, towards home. Soon, the car is out of sight entirely.

[Press any key...]

A virtual summer hike
Copyright (c) 2004 by Jacqueline A. Lott
Submitted as a Landscape Entry to the 2004 IF Art Show
For hints and information, type "about."

Enjoy your walk, and thank you for playing.

Release 1 / Serial number 040528 / Inform v6.30 Library 6/10


Standing alone at the edge of the deserted parking lot, you take in a deep
breath of fresh air and glance about. An inviting trail beckons from the forest
to the east; that path quickly curves among the hemlocks and out of sight. Two
roads depart from the parking lot: one leads north, towards home, the other
south, toward the campground not quite half a mile distant.

Today's hike is one you've done many times before, and you're intimately
familiar with the ground you'll cover. You know without the aid of a map that
you can proceed either east or south, and that either route will bring you
toward the Lower Mt. Cammerer trail. From there it's a slow and steady climb to



the fire tower.

>inventory

You are carrying:
  some socks (being worn)
  some hiking shorts (being worn)
  a shirt (being worn)
  some hiking boots (being worn)
  a hip pack (being worn and closed)
  a watch (being worn)

>look


The hiker parking area is where people generally leave their cars while
exploring the nearby trail system in the national park, but this morning it's
devoid of vehicles. A grassy hill, recently mown, lines the western edge of the
parking lot, while a forest abuts it to the east. From the parking lot there are
two roads: one departing north, toward the park exit, and one leading south
toward the campground just under half a mile away. A trail enters the woods to
the east, quickly disappearing amongst the hemlocks.

For your hike, you can proceed either east or south. Either route will take you
to the Lower Mt. Cammerer trail.

>smell

The air smells of life, of greenery and nearby streams. Lovely.

>examine me

You glance down and the first thing you see are your hiking boots. They're
serious hiking boots - eight inches high, all leather exterior with Gore-Tex
lining; so long as you don't walk through water more than, say, seven or seven
and a half inches deep, your feet will stay dry. These boots consume most of
your lower calves in a rather unladylike but not altogether unattractive way,
and bits of your thick Thorlo socks are just visible.

Your legs, feminine but muscular, are revealed to the world because you're
wearing shorts, which, let's be honest, is probably silly, because you'll no
doubt end up covered in bug bites and scratches, but it's sooo warm and you
simply couldn't resist - it will give you something to complain about tomorrow,
but only to the people who won't say, "Why didn't you wear pants?"

At any rate, a long sleeved t-shirt rounds out the ensemble. You're comfortable,
and you're ready to hike.

>x sky

The sky is a rich, warm blue, and the sun is climbing in the east.

A slight breeze blows out of the east.

>x forest

A forest of towering hemlock hugs the eastern margin of the parking lot, and a
trail enters the woods due east.

>x watch

You glance down at your watch, a rather chunky and unstylish accoutrement
purchased for fifteen dollars at the drugstore. Fashion critiques aside, it's a
functional, water-resistant, glow in the dark timepiece.

At present, it indicates that the time is 7:06 AM.

>x pack

You don't know what you'd do without your wonderful hip pack on day hikes like
this. It's compact, it's capable of carrying everything you could really need
(even in an emergency), it holds a water bottle, and it's your favorite color
(green!).

>jump

You jump up and down, but the weight of your pack banging around on your hips is
rather uncomfortable, so you quickly cease your hopping.

>east

You decide it's best to leave the pavement as quickly as possible, and opt for
the trail into the woods. The path, lined with wildflowers, curves south, then
southeast, before joining with the Lower Mt. Cammerer trail.


You're standing at the junction of two trails, and two signs are nailed to a
single post here to orient you. The Lower Mt. Cammerer trail heads northeast,
toward the Sutton Ridge Overlook and, eventually, to the Appalachian Trail.
Alternately, the trail continues southwest toward the campground, about two
tenths of a mile away. A second trail, unnamed, runs northwest, toward the
parking area where you began, or southeast, toward the Low Gap Trail.

A patch of yellow flowers is growing at the base of the signpost.

>look


You're standing at the junction of two trails, one running northwest-southeast,
the other running northeast-southwest. At the north corner of the junction, two
signs are nailed to a single post indicating where each trail leads.

>smell flowers

Hm... you can't really detect much of a scent from these flowers. Their delicate
beauty makes up for the lack of scent.

>listen

Somewhere out of sight, a crow caws.

An insect lights upon your ear, but a wave of your hand sends it away.

>touch flowers

You carefully grasp one of the jewelweed stems between your fingers so that you
can examine it better, then carefully release it again.

>pick flowers

As much as you might love to pick some of the flowers, you'd prefer to leave
them for the next hiker to enjoy. And besides, this is a National Park; things
should be left untouched and in their natural state so that everyone can enjoy
the beauty. There are flowers to pick in the garden back home.

>x sign

There are two signs on the post. The uppermost sign faces southeast, and is
oriented so that you know it pertains to the trail that runs northeast-
southwest; it reads:

LOWER MOUNT CAMMERER TRAIL
Sutton Ridge Overlook 1.2 >
Appalachian Trail 7.3 >
< Cosby Campground 0.2

The other sign faces southwest and pertains to the access trail from the parking
lot, which has no name; the sign reads:

Low Gap Trail 0.4 ->
<- Hiker Parking 0.4

>rotate sign

Ooh. Aren't you evil. No. That would get people lost in the wilderness and then
they might die and you could never live with that horrible, terrible, burning
guilt.

>ne

You head northeast. A quarter mile or so down the path you encounter a shallow
stream, easily crossed by hopping from one rock to the next without getting your
boots wet.

Before long, the trail narrows from a road to a trail. The vegetation closes in
on each side as well as overhead, forming a darkened tunnel of rhododendron.
It's a pleasant stroll along this section, quiet, with only the smallest shafts
of sunlight penetrating the thick canopy, but you're evidently the first person
to break trail today and you keep hitting unseen strands of spider web.
Eventually the tunnel disappears, the canopy opens up, and as you pick the last
wispy cob web from your hiking shorts, you notice that you've arrived at the
footbridge.


Sunlight pours forth into a large opening in the trees here, illuminating bits
of pollen floating in the air and sparkling on the surface of Tom's Creek. The
stream flows northwest, gurgling beneath a rustic but sturdy log footbridge.

You hear the distinctive sound of a woodpecker in the distance.

>x stream

Tom's Creek is wide, perhaps thirty feet across, and sufficiently deep enough to
merit the presence of a foot bridge. The water slides over rocks, slips over
semi-submerged boulders into small white cascades, pauses near the bank in tiny
eddies, and seemingly stops in darkened pools. Eventually, it flows off to the
northwest, giggling and whispering its secrets to the forest as it goes.

>taste stream

You're sure the cold, clear water would taste fantastic, but you also know that
it might make you sick. Looks are deceiving, and despite its clarity there might
be bacteria present. You've no filter, no way to boil it, and besides all that,
you have some perfectly acceptable water in your water bottle.

>enter stream

You splash your boots about at the edge of the stream, but ultimately decide to
stand on the bank so as to keep from accidentally getting your socks wet. You
forgot to bring a spare pair. You forgot a few things in your rush to get out
the door. Oh well.

>look


Tom's Creek flows across the path here, beneath a sturdy log footbridge. The
path continues on the other side of the bridge, to the northeast.

>x log

The stream is fairly wide and a bit too deep to cross without getting your socks
wet, and so a foot bridge has been installed. It's a simple structure, half of a
log with its flat side facing up for a walking surface. A hand rail affixed to
one side allows will help you maintain your balance as you cross. It's
functional, yet blends in well with the natural surroundings.

>ne

You climb onto the footbridge over Tom's Creek, walk halfway across, and pause.
One hand on the railing for balance, you close your eyes, feel the coolness of
the water running beneath you, and concentrate on the sound of the water as it
ripples along over unseen rocks. You stand there for perhaps two minutes,
enjoying the water's song, but eventually the cool air coming off the creek is
too much for your uncovered legs and you decide to continue up the trail.

After walking about a third of a mile, you come to a trail junction.


The trail crests the first of many ridges along the northern side of Mt.
Cammerer here. Sutton Ridge, as it's called, is dry and exposed - perhaps not
the loveliest spot for a rest break. But from here, a tiny spur trial scrambles
up the ridge to the southeast, and the clearing at the top generally provides an
lovely view of the surrounding mountains.

You pause to contemplate whether you'd like to check out the spur trail, or to
simply continue east, toward the fire tower.

>se

You decide to make the scramble up to the overlook. It's only two-hundred yards,
but the climb is steep and leaves you winded once you reach the top.


The Sutton Ridge Overlook is a very formal name for a very informal clearing on
the side of a hill. The ground here remains bare from people such as yourself
coming up here to take in the view; evenings in particular are a great time to
visit, because this is a wonderful vantage point from which to take in the
sunset over Gabes Mountain, across the valley to the west. Though perhaps not
quite so stunning as at sunset, the clearing is still quite beautiful during the
day. To the north, the Cosby Valley stretches out lush and green, and mountain
laurel dots the surrounding hillsides, pink and in full bloom. Galax and arbutus
line the edges of the clearing at ground level.

You sit down on the ground in the clearing to catch your breath and take in the
view.

>x valley

The Cosby Valley rests between Mt. Cammerer and Gabes Mountain, lush and green.
Though you can't see within its depths, you know that the Pigeon River courses
along its floor, far below you.

>x galax

The galax is a lovely shade of green with round, waxy leaves. They stay green
all winter.

>stand

You get back up and brush off your clothes. Break's over.

>x ground

The ground, where it lacks vegetation, is brown and dry.

>down

You work your way carefully down the steep spur trail.


You're standing at a bend in the trail on the crest of Sutton Ridge. The trail
turns from south to east here, and a spur trail scrambles through the arbutus
and galax to the southeast.

>e

You leave the spur trail behind and head down the eastern side of the ridge. The
path is a long, narrow straightaway, and the walking is easy. After less than a
quarter mile you come to a lovely little waterfall, and pause to admire its
beauty.


Whereas Sutton Ridge was a high spot, dry and exposed, this is a tiny creek draw
between two ridges. Riding Fork Creek cascades down a series of mossy dark gray
rocks here, southeast of the trail. You can continue on toward the fire tower by
hopping across the creek to the north.

A gentle breeze brushes your skin.

>x waterfall

Riding Fork Creek may be small, but that doesn't make it any less majestic: a
narrow stream of water tumbles down over a series of chiseled, squarish, dark
grey rocks, almost like a contrived fountain, and yet it's natural.

You feel the coolness coming off the water and close your eyes. A smile touches
your lips, and you breathe in the refreshingly chilled air. You take a moment to
contemplate how even in the driest of years this tiny stream persists, flowing
ever on, regardless of who's here to admire its beauty. You think like that
sometimes... wondering about purpose, about process. About the way in which
everything moves on regardless of your presence or concerns.

>think

You take a moment to consider your next move.

>e

The ridge climbs sharply upward in that direction, with no path. You'd tear up a
great deal of vegetation trying to make the climb. It would be better, perhaps,
to remain on the trail. From here, you can go north.

>n
You cross Riding Fork Creek and continue weaving over and between ridges, making
the long, slow climb along the northern face of Mt. Cammerer.

After a mile and a half or so, you come to Campsite 35, the only developed
backcountry campsite along the trail today. There's no one present, so you rest
at one of the scorched fire rings, nibble on some trail mix, and watch a
squirrel as he goes about his business.

After a pleasant break, you continue on toward the tower. The gradual nature of
the climb gives way to a steeper ascent, and after an additional two and three-
quarter miles, you reach the next landmark of today's hike.


The Lower Mt. Cammerer trail ends here at a junction with the famous Appalachian
Trail. Commonly referred to simply as the "AT," the trail covers nearly the
entire length of the Appalachian Mountains, from Maine to Georgia - a distance
of over two thousand miles. You wish that you'd taken a summer off during
college to hike the length of it, but there's no point in regretting that now.
There's always retirement to look forward to, right? You sigh wistfully at the
thought and plop down onto the ground among the roots of a large tulip poplar
growing in the center of the junction.



The AT runs east-west here. According to the sign, it's only another three miles
to the tower.

A gentle breeze caresses your skin.

>stand

You get back up and brush off your clothes. Break's over.

>look


The AT climbs from east to west here, ascending toward the peak of the mountain
and the fire tower. The Lower Mt. Cammerer trail, from which you accessed the
AT, descends out of the junction to the northwest.

>x sign

There are two signs on the post. The uppermost sign faces south, and is oriented
so that you know it pertains to the trail that runs east-west; it reads:

APPALACHIAN TRAIL
Davenport Gap 2.8 ->
<- Mt Cammerer Fire Tower 2.9
<- Low Gap 4.4

The other sign faces west and reads:

LOWER MT CAMMERER TRAIL
<- Cosby Campground 7.5

Seven and a half miles back to the campground and parking area... you've already
come quite a way!

>w

You look uphill at the rather intimidating stretch of steep trail, tighten your
pack about your waist, and let out a long, slow breath. You've done this stretch
many, many times, but no matter how in shape you get it always tends to kick
your ass. Oh well, half begun is half done (or some stupid cliché).

The trail is a steep mess of tree roots and rock, and for the next two and a
half miles you feel as if you're working out on a gigantic natural stairmaster,
dragging your heavy feet up one step at a time. You plow along like that with
your head down for over an hour, your gaze rarely if ever straying from your
boots to prevent tripping. Mercifully, you reach the next trail junction.


The trail is wide here, with lots of bare ground from so many hikers having
rested in this location before you. There's little to see here, really, save for
the trail sign that benevolently announces that you're very close to your goal.

The wind picks up for a moment, cooling your skin in the growing heat of the
day.

>n

You set off toward the fire tower. The trail runs along the top of a rocky
ridge, but it's well-used and, for the most part, easily walked. The last few
feet are a bit of a scramble, but you effortlessly manage the boulders and find
yourself standing triumphantly on the porch of the fire tower.


The Mt. Cammerer fire tower sits atop a jagged, rocky peak with a commanding
view of the surrounding mountains. It's a fantastic location for such a
structure, really, because you can see for miles in every direction and it would
be easy to spot a plume of smoke, particularly if you used binoculars.

You lean against the railing and take in the landscape. Gorgeous, and so worth
the effort.

A hawk cries in the sky above you, momentarily drawing your attention.

>x hawk

The hawk circles high overhead, seemingly without effort.

>fly

You wish to have the freedom of a bird. Why not settle for the freedom of your
feet?

>down

You take a quick peek over the edge of the railing and decide that falling to
the rocks below might be bad for your health.

>s

Fortunately, the railing prevents you from toppling over the edge toward certain
injury and possible death. You can leave the tower by going southwest.

>look


The fire tower has a commanding view of the surrounding mountains. You can enter
the tower or simply return back the way you came. The trail departs to the
southwest.

>x mountains

You walk to the railing, lean against it, and take in the view. It's a
wonderfully clear day, and it feels as if you're able to see the entire world
from here - mountain after mountain, sprawling to the horizon. You can see Webb
Mountain to the north, where your house is nestled somewhere in the trees.
Beyond is Bays Mountain and, further still and slightly west, Clinch Mountain.

You walk around the tower and look to the east. Snowbird Mountain lies just the
other side of the Pigeon River gorge. Beyond that, the Unakas and, further
still, the Blue Ridge.

Traversing the porch to the south, you see the Mt. Sterling Lookout on a distant
ridge, barely visible without binoculars.

Finally, you step to the western railing and look out onto peaks of whose names
you are not certain. The names aren't important, really, merely random
designations of natural landmarks. First the Cherokee gave them names, then the
Europeans, and perhaps someday someone else will call them something new. But
the mountains will endure regardless. Or so you hope.

>enter

You open the door to the fire tower and walk inside, closing it behind you.


The interior of the fire tower is simple and unadorned. A plain wooden floor
stretches from wall to wall, and windows stretch from about waist high to just
short of the ceiling. Despite the sun, the warmth of the day, and the large
windows that allow a 360-degree view of the surrounding landscape, the air is
surprisingly cool inside the tower, no doubt due to the stone foundation you saw
outside. You're thankful for the break from the heat.

>look through window

You walk to the edge of the room, lean gently against the window, and take in
the view. It's a wonderfully clear day, and it feels as if you're able to see
the entire world from here - mountain after mountain, sprawling to the horizon.
You can see Webb Mountain to the north, where your house is nestled somewhere in
the trees. Beyond is Bays Mountain and, further still and slightly west, Clinch
Mountain.

You turn and walk across the room a bit, and look to the east. Snowbird Mountain
lies just the other side of the Pigeon River gorge. Beyond that, the Unakas and,
further still, the Blue Ridge.

Turning south, you see the Mt. Sterling Lookout on a distant ridge, barely
visible without binoculars.

Finally, you step to the western portion of the room and look out onto peaks of
whose names you are not certain. The names aren't important, really, merely
random designations of natural landmarks. First the Cherokee gave them names,
then the Europeans, and perhaps someday someone else will call them something
new. But the mountains will endure regardless. Or so you hope.

>x mountain

The mountain is a sea of trees, dark green waves rolling over a weathered
landscape. These mountains are considered by some to be less majestic than the
Rockies or other, younger, unweathered mountain chains, but you think of them as
wise and old, containing secrets.

>look


The interior of the fire tower is simple and unadorned. A plain wooden floor
stretches from wall to wall, and windows stretch from about waist high to just
short of the ceiling. Despite the sun, the warmth of the day, and the large
windows that allow a 360-degree view of the surrounding landscape, the air is
surprisingly cool inside the tower, no doubt due to the stone foundation you saw
outside. You're thankful for the break from the heat.

>inventory

You are carrying:
  some socks (being worn)
  some hiking shorts (being worn)
  a shirt (being worn)
  some hiking boots (being worn)
  a hip pack (being worn and closed)
  a watch (being worn)

>take off pack

You take off the hip pack.

>open pack

You unzip the pack.

>look in pack

In the hip pack are a headlamp, a first aid kit, a water bottle and a massive
bag of trail mix.

>eat trail mix

(first taking the massive bag of trail mix)
Mmmm... excellent. A bit of trail mix makes you feel better, and you're ready to
hike some more.

>smell it

The bag emits an aroma of yummy nutty goodness. Mmmm.

>put it in pack

You seal the bag of trail mix and tuck it neatly away in your pack.

>close pack

You zip the pack closed.

>stretch calves

Your calves feel a bit tight, so you walk over to a nearby tree and place your
palms against the bark, enjoying the rough texture beneath your hands. You bend
your left leg in a lunge and step back with your right foot, leg straight.
Closing your eyes, you take a pleasantly deep breath and wait for some of the
tension to subside in your calf, which it does.

After stretching both legs a couple of times, you decide it's probably time to
move on down the trail.

>x socks

Your Thorlos are designed specifically for hiking, with extra padding beneath
the heel and ball of your foot for comfort. This particular pair of Thorlos are
white; just the very tops of them are visible.

>smell feet

The exterior off the boots smell like leather. You'd rather not smell in the
inside of the boots.

>x shirt

You're wearing a dark brown long-sleeved t-shirt, the color of chocolate. It's
cotton, which isn't always a wise thing to wear when hiking - fantastic when
it's hot, but is miserable in the rain - however there's a brilliant blue sky
and a favorable forecast, so you're risking it.

>smell shirt

You glance at the sun climbing in the sky, then lift your arm and take a sniff
of your arm pit. Not too bad... yet.

>out

You strap your pack about your hips once again. It's easier to carry everything
that way.

You open the door to the fire tower and walk out onto the porch, closing it
behind you.


The fire tower has a commanding view of the surrounding mountains. You can enter
the tower or simply return back the way you came. The trail departs to the
southwest.

A tiny chipmunk climbs to the top of a nearby rock, chatters in your general
direction, then bounces away.

>sw

Having enjoyed a pleasant break in the company of an amazing view, you decide to
start back toward home.


The AT runs from northeast to southwest here, continuing on toward Low Gap. A
trail sign announces that the Mt. Cammerer fire tower is located just over half
a mile to the north.

>stretch legs

Your calves feel a bit tight, so you walk over to a nearby tree and place your
palms against the bark, enjoying the rough texture beneath your hands. You bend
your left leg in a lunge and step back with your right foot, leg straight.
Closing your eyes, you take a pleasantly deep breath and wait for some of the
tension to subside in your calf, which it does.

After stretching both legs a couple of times, you decide it's probably time to
move on down the trail.

>look


The AT runs from northeast to southwest here, continuing on toward Low Gap. A
trail sign announces that the Mt. Cammerer fire tower is located just over half
a mile to the north.

>sw
You recommence climbing the Appalachian Trail. Just as with the previous
stretch, it's littered with roots and rocks and excessive steepness, and makes
you not such a happy hiker. "Oh well," you think to yourself, "it's making me
stronger. Stronger. Yes. Stronger."  You continue this rather ineffective little
pep talk for about a half a mile, at which point the trail graciously levels out
along the crest of a ridge.

You find an easy, confident pace, and begin to notice how effortlessly your legs
move on this type of terrain. The lack of obstructions in the trail allows you
to take in the view as you hike, and incredible mountain vistas are present on
both sides of the trail for a short while - successive waves of blue, smoky
ridges trailing off into the distance.

After a bit, the trail begins to descend off the ridge and into the trees...
gradually at first, then steeper, and your pace finds a decrescendo as you
carefully navigate the slope. Many people prefer a strenuous uphill to this,
because descending can be fairly hard on your knees and ankles, but after the
beating your lungs and legs took on the AT earlier, you are inclined to
respectfully disagree.

After a total walk of just over two miles, you encounter another trail junction.




Two trails cross here, in the center of what's called Low Gap, so named because
it's the lowest pass through the mountains for over fifty miles if you were
traveling along the Appalachian Trail headed north. The AT runs from northeast
to southwest here, climbing toward Cosby Knob and beyond - all the way to
Georgia. The Low Gap trail crosses perpendicular to the AT, descending in both
directions: southeast, toward Walnut Bottoms and Big Creek, or northwest, toward
the Cosby Campground and, for you, home.

A sign at one side of the junction points the way and provides the mileage to
nearby landmarks.

Your socks have shifted uncomfortably in your boots, so you take a seat in the
clearing to readjust them. Once you're finished, you decide the ground feels
good enough to simply rest there for a bit.

A cool breeze builds momentarily from the east, cooling your skin.

>x sign

There are two signs on the post. The uppermost sign faces southeast, and is
oriented so that you know it pertains to the trail that runs northeast-
southwest; it reads:

APPALACHIAN TRAIL
Mt Cammerer 2.1 ->
Lwr Mt Cammerer Trail 4.4 ->
<- Cosby Knob Shelter 0.8

The other sign faces southwest and reads:

LOW GAP TRAIL
Walnut Bottoms 2.5 ->
<- Cosby Campground 2.9

A gnat bounces against your forehead, and you quickly swat the annoyance away.

>remove boots

You take your boots off and remove your socks. It feels great to get some air on
your feet, but after a bit of a rest you decide it's best to get going again.
You put your socks and boots back on, tie the laces securely.

>x boots

Wonderfully durable boots, size seven narrow. Their heavy leather exterior
protects your feet from rocks and roots, they're tall for proper ankle support
over rough terrain, the soles tend to keep you from slipping even on slick
rocks, and they're lined with Gore-Tex to keep you dry. Your only complaint is
that the company claims that the boots 'breathe,' when in fact they seem to keep
your feet hot in the summer, freezing cold in the winter. So far, though,
they're the best boots you've ever owned.

>x watch

You glance down at your watch. It reads 2:17 PM.

>look

 (on the ground)
You stand in the center of Low Gap, where two trails intersect. For the
Appalachian Trail, this is a low spot, and the trail climbs both to the
southwest, toward Cosby Knob, and northeast, back toward the fire tower.
Conversely, this is high spot on the Low Gap trail, which descends into Walnut
Bottoms to the southeast and, to the northwest, toward home.

>stand

You get back up and brush off your clothes. Break's over.

>xyzzy

If that actually could work, you'd certainly miss out on some beautiful scenery.

>nw
With a lightness in your heart at the realization that you're on the downhill
stretch, you set off toward the campground. At first, the going is rather steep,
but the trail soon begins to switchback upon itself, snaking slowly downhill
toward flatter ground. Though the tight switchbacks reduce the angle of descent,
they also make the trail longer and limit the space for trees. There seems to be
little or no shade, and the sun beats down relentlessly upon you as you descend
the west-facing ridge. It's tempting to simply cut off-trail and travel
crosscountry to save time, but you realize that if everyone did that the erosion
along this ridge would be terrible.

After about two miles, the switchbacks disappear and you find yourself comforted
by the shade of the woods once again. The air is cool here, chilled further by
the presence of Cosby Creek, which flows parallel to the path for a quarter mile
or so. Larger than the other streams you've encountered today, Cosby Creek is
full of white-foamed cascades and deep, dark pools. The water of the stream
feeds life into the forest, and everything along this stretch is green and moist
and mossy. From time to time the landscape seems rather surreal, as if you're
strolling through a fairytale rather than a real place. After a time, the stream
flows off into the forest, out of sight, and you're somewhat sad to see it go.
No matter, this means you're even closer to home.



The trail begins to widen, from a path to a road, and you come to another
junction.


You smile as you enter the junction and see the sign in the northeast corner of
the clearing:

LOW GAP TRAIL
<- Cosby Campground 0.4
Low Gap 2.5 ->

Less than half a mile to the campground! Of course, the parking area's another
half mile beyond that, but that's of little consequence... you're very close to
home now.

A previously unseen skink on a nearby log is startled by your presence and
skitters under the bark.

>n

You decide to take the access trail back, seeing as how it's a slightly shorter
walk in that direction. This portion of the access trail isn't very heavily used
and is slightly overgrown; grass brushes against your legs as you walk. After
not quite half a mile, you find yourself back in the same clearing you passed
through earlier today.


You're standing at the junction of two trails, one running northwest-southeast,
the other running northeast-southwest. At the north corner of the junction, two
signs are nailed to a single post indicating where each trail leads.

A cardinal glides across the path, just above the trees, and is gone.

>sw

That's the longer route back. Not that it matters, really - your feet are up for
an extra quarter of a mile. You head down the wide trail (it's more of a road
than a trail, really), and quickly find yourself in the campground.


You're standing at the edge of the road on the eastern edge of the Cosby
Campground. A familiar wooden sign, painted brown with bright white lettering
stands here, just off the pavement and to the left of the trail. As with all of
the National Park Service's trail signs, it gives you the name of the trail and
the distance to the nearest important junctions. This one reads:

LOWER MOUNT CAMMERER TRAIL
Low Gap Trail 0.2
Sutton Ridge Overlook 1.4
Appalachian Trail 7.5

The dirt trail is wide enough here to accommodate a full-size vehicle, and
begins behind a locked gate.

>nw
You continue walking northwest, through the campground. Parents at a nearby site
are setting up their tents for the evening, one for them, and a smaller one for
their children. A young boy and girl are laughing and throwing a frisbee (and
not throwing it very well) nearby. Suddenly, the frisbee comes flying right
toward you! Fortunately, you see it coming and deftly toss it to the little
girl, who thanks you and runs back to play with her brother. Another quarter
mile finds you back in the parking lot.


You stroll into the parking lot, light on your feet despite the sixteen miles
behind you, and glance at your watch. It reads three thirty-eight in the
afternoon. Not bad time, really, considering all the stops along the way to
check things out. You take off your pack and plop down on a grassy hill at the
western edge of the parking lot. Lying back, angled with your head uphill of
your feet, you watch the clouds that are gathering overhead. One of them reminds
you of a galax leaf. You smile to yourself, thinking of the wonderful day you've
had, close your eyes, listen to the birds the nearby woods, and eventually drift
off to sleep in the grass. What a fantastic day.

As darkness falls, the serenity is broken by the sound of an approaching car,
and you open your eyes to see your ride pulling into the parking lot, right on



time.

    

Would you like to RESTART, RESTORE a saved game or QUIT?
